    3. Terms, definitions, and symbols
1   For the purposes of this International Standard, the following definitions apply. Other
    terms are defined where they appear in italic type or on the left side of a syntax rule.
    Terms explicitly defined in this International Standard are not to be presumed to refer
    implicitly to similar terms defined elsewhere. Terms not defined in this International
    Standard are to be interpreted according to ISO/IEC 2382−1. Mathematical symbols not
    defined in this International Standard are to be interpreted according to ISO 31−11.
    3.1
1   access
    〈execution-time action〉 to read or modify the value of an object
2   NOTE 1   Where only one of these two actions is meant, ‘‘read’’ or ‘‘modify’’ is used.

3   NOTE 2   "Modify’’ includes the case where the new value being stored is the same as the previous value.

4   NOTE 3   Expressions that are not evaluated do not access objects.

    3.2
1   alignment
    requirement that objects of a particular type be located on storage boundaries with
    addresses that are particular multiples of a byte address
    3.3
1   argument
    actual argument
    actual parameter (deprecated)
    expression in the comma-separated list bounded by the parentheses in a function call
    expression, or a sequence of preprocessing tokens in the comma-separated list bounded
    by the parentheses in a function-like macro invocation
    3.4
1   behavior
    external appearance or action
    3.4.1
1   implementation-defined behavior
    unspecified behavior where each implementation documents how the choice is made
2   EXAMPLE An example of implementation-defined behavior is the propagation of the high-order bit
    when a signed integer is shifted right.

    3.4.2
1   locale-specific behavior
    behavior that depends on local conventions of nationality, culture, and language that each
    implementation documents


    §3.4.2                                         General                                                     3
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                              ©ISO/IEC


2   EXAMPLE An example of locale-specific behavior is whether the islower function returns true for
    characters other than the 26 lowercase Latin letters.

    3.4.3
1   undefined behavior
    behavior, upon use of a nonportable or erroneous program construct or of erroneous data,
    for which this International Standard imposes no requirements
2   NOTE Possible undefined behavior ranges from ignoring the situation completely with unpredictable
    results, to behaving during translation or program execution in a documented manner characteristic of the
    environment (with or without the issuance of a diagnostic message), to terminating a translation or
    execution (with the issuance of a diagnostic message).

3   EXAMPLE        An example of undefined behavior is the behavior on integer overflow.

    3.4.4
1   unspecified behavior
    behavior where this International Standard provides two or more possibilities and
    imposes no further requirements on which is chosen in any instance
2   EXAMPLE        An example of unspecified behavior is the order in which the arguments to a function are
    evaluated.

    3.5
1   bit
    unit of data storage in the execution environment large enough to hold an object that may
    have one of two values
2   NOTE      It need not be possible to express the address of each individual bit of an object.

    3.6
1   byte
    addressable unit of data storage large enough to hold any member of the basic character
    set of the execution environment
2   NOTE 1     It is possible to express the address of each individual byte of an object uniquely.

3   NOTE 2 A byte is composed of a contiguous sequence of bits, the number of which is implementation-
    defined. The least significant bit is called the low-order bit; the most significant bit is called the high-order
    bit.

    3.7
1   character
    〈abstract〉 member of a set of elements used for the organization, control, or
    representation of data
    3.7.1
1   character
    single-byte character
    〈C〉 bit representation that fits in a byte


    4                                                  General                                               §3.7.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    3.7.2
1   multibyte character
    sequence of one or more bytes representing a member of the extended character set of
    either the source or the execution environment
2   NOTE    The extended character set is a superset of the basic character set.

    3.7.3
1   wide character
    bit representation that fits in an object of type wchar_t, capable of representing any
    character in the current locale
    3.8
1   constraint
    restriction, either syntactic or semantic, by which the exposition of language elements is
    to be interpreted
    3.9
1   correctly rounded result
    representation in the result format that is nearest in value, subject to the effective
    rounding mode, to what the result would be given unlimited range and precision
    3.10
1   diagnostic message
    message belonging to an implementation-defined subset of the implementation’s message
    output
    3.11
1   forward reference
    reference to a later subclause of this International Standard that contains additional
    information relevant to this subclause
    3.12
1   implementation
    particular set of software, running in a particular translation environment under particular
    control options, that performs translation of programs for, and supports execution of
    functions in, a particular execution environment
    3.13
1   implementation limit
    restriction imposed upon programs by the implementation
    3.14
1   object
    region of data storage in the execution environment, the contents of which can represent
    values

    §3.14                                            General                                          5
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                          ©ISO/IEC


2   NOTE     When referenced, an object may be interpreted as having a particular type; see 6.3.2.1.

    3.15
1   parameter
    formal parameter
    formal argument (deprecated)
    object declared as part of a function declaration or definition that acquires a value on
    entry to the function, or an identifier from the comma-separated list bounded by the
    parentheses immediately following the macro name in a function-like macro definition
    3.16
1   recommended practice
    specification that is strongly recommended as being in keeping with the intent of the
    standard, but that may be impractical for some implementations
    3.17
1   value
    precise meaning of the contents of an object when interpreted as having a specific type
    3.17.1
1   implementation-defined value
    unspecified value where each implementation documents how the choice is made
    3.17.2
1   indeterminate value
    either an unspecified value or a trap representation
    3.17.3
1   unspecified value
    valid value of the relevant type where this International Standard imposes no
    requirements on which value is chosen in any instance
2   NOTE     An unspecified value cannot be a trap representation.

    3.18
1    x
    ceiling of x: the least integer greater than or equal to x
2   EXAMPLE       2. 4 is 3, −2. 4 is −2.

    3.19
1    x
    floor of x: the greatest integer less than or equal to x
2   EXAMPLE       2. 4 is 2, −2. 4 is −3.




    6                                               General                                            §3.19
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                  ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)



