    6. Language
    6.1 Notation
1   In the syntax notation used in this clause, syntactic categories (nonterminals) are
    indicated by italic type, and literal words and character set members (terminals) by bold
    type. A colon (:) following a nonterminal introduces its definition. Alternative
    definitions are listed on separate lines, except when prefaced by the words ‘‘one of’’. An
    optional symbol is indicated by the subscript ‘‘opt’’, so that
             { expressionopt }
    indicates an optional expression enclosed in braces.
2   When syntactic categories are referred to in the main text, they are not italicized and
    words are separated by spaces instead of hyphens.
3   A summary of the language syntax is given in annex A.
    6.2 Concepts
    6.2.1 Scopes of identifiers
1   An identifier can denote an object; a function; a tag or a member of a structure, union, or
    enumeration; a typedef name; a label name; a macro name; or a macro parameter. The
    same identifier can denote different entities at different points in the program. A member
    of an enumeration is called an enumeration constant. Macro names and macro
    parameters are not considered further here, because prior to the semantic phase of
    program translation any occurrences of macro names in the source file are replaced by the
    preprocessing token sequences that constitute their macro definitions.
2   For each different entity that an identifier designates, the identifier is visible (i.e., can be
    used) only within a region of program text called its scope. Different entities designated
    by the same identifier either have different scopes, or are in different name spaces. There
    are four kinds of scopes: function, file, block, and function prototype. (A function
    prototype is a declaration of a function that declares the types of its parameters.)
3   A label name is the only kind of identifier that has function scope. It can be used (in a
    goto statement) anywhere in the function in which it appears, and is declared implicitly
    by its syntactic appearance (followed by a : and a statement).
4   Every other identifier has scope determined by the placement of its declaration (in a
    declarator or type specifier). If the declarator or type specifier that declares the identifier
    appears outside of any block or list of parameters, the identifier has file scope, which
    terminates at the end of the translation unit. If the declarator or type specifier that
    declares the identifier appears inside a block or within the list of parameter declarations in
    a function definition, the identifier has block scope, which terminates at the end of the
    associated block. If the declarator or type specifier that declares the identifier appears

    §6.2.1                                    Language                                           29
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                        ©ISO/IEC


    within the list of parameter declarations in a function prototype (not part of a function
    definition), the identifier has function prototype scope, which terminates at the end of the
    function declarator. If an identifier designates two different entities in the same name
    space, the scopes might overlap. If so, the scope of one entity (the inner scope) will be a
    strict subset of the scope of the other entity (the outer scope). Within the inner scope, the
    identifier designates the entity declared in the inner scope; the entity declared in the outer
    scope is hidden (and not visible) within the inner scope.
5   Unless explicitly stated otherwise, where this International Standard uses the term
    identifier to refer to some entity (as opposed to the syntactic construct), it refers to the
    entity in the relevant name space whose declaration is visible at the point the identifier
    occurs.
6   Two identifiers have the same scope if and only if their scopes terminate at the same
    point.
7   Structure, union, and enumeration tags have scope that begins just after the appearance of
    the tag in a type specifier that declares the tag. Each enumeration constant has scope that
    begins just after the appearance of its defining enumerator in an enumerator list. Any
    other identifier has scope that begins just after the completion of its declarator.
    Forward references: declarations (6.7), function calls (6.5.2.2), function definitions
    (6.9.1), identifiers (6.4.2), name spaces of identifiers (6.2.3), macro replacement (6.10.3),
    source file inclusion (6.10.2), statements (6.8).
    6.2.2 Linkages of identifiers
1   An identifier declared in different scopes or in the same scope more than once can be
    made to refer to the same object or function by a process called linkage.21) There are
    three kinds of linkage: external, internal, and none.
2   In the set of translation units and libraries that constitutes an entire program, each
    declaration of a particular identifier with external linkage denotes the same object or
    function. Within one translation unit, each declaration of an identifier with internal
    linkage denotes the same object or function. Each declaration of an identifier with no
    linkage denotes a unique entity.
3   If the declaration of a file scope identifier for an object or a function contains the storage-
    class specifier static, the identifier has internal linkage.22)
4   For an identifier declared with the storage-class specifier extern in a scope in which a



    21) There is no linkage between different identifiers.
    22) A function declaration can contain the storage-class specifier static only if it is at file scope; see
        6.7.1.

    30                                              Language                                          §6.2.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                        ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    prior declaration of that identifier is visible,23) if the prior declaration specifies internal or
    external linkage, the linkage of the identifier at the later declaration is the same as the
    linkage specified at the prior declaration. If no prior declaration is visible, or if the prior
    declaration specifies no linkage, then the identifier has external linkage.
5   If the declaration of an identifier for a function has no storage-class specifier, its linkage
    is determined exactly as if it were declared with the storage-class specifier extern. If
    the declaration of an identifier for an object has file scope and no storage-class specifier,
    its linkage is external.
6   The following identifiers have no linkage: an identifier declared to be anything other than
    an object or a function; an identifier declared to be a function parameter; a block scope
    identifier for an object declared without the storage-class specifier extern.
7   If, within a translation unit, the same identifier appears with both internal and external
    linkage, the behavior is undefined.
    Forward references: declarations (6.7), expressions (6.5), external definitions (6.9),
    statements (6.8).
    6.2.3 Name spaces of identifiers
1   If more than one declaration of a particular identifier is visible at any point in a
    translation unit, the syntactic context disambiguates uses that refer to different entities.
    Thus, there are separate name spaces for various categories of identifiers, as follows:
    — label names (disambiguated by the syntax of the label declaration and use);
    — the tags of structures, unions, and enumerations (disambiguated by following any24)
      of the keywords struct, union, or enum);
    — the members of structures or unions; each structure or union has a separate name
      space for its members (disambiguated by the type of the expression used to access the
      member via the . or -> operator);
    — all other identifiers, called ordinary identifiers (declared in ordinary declarators or as
      enumeration constants).
    Forward references: enumeration specifiers (6.7.2.2), labeled statements (6.8.1),
    structure and union specifiers (6.7.2.1), structure and union members (6.5.2.3), tags
    (6.7.2.3), the goto statement (6.8.6.1).




    23) As specified in 6.2.1, the later declaration might hide the prior declaration.
    24) There is only one name space for tags even though three are possible.

    §6.2.3                                           Language                                         31
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                       ©ISO/IEC


    6.2.4 Storage durations of objects
1   An object has a storage duration that determines its lifetime. There are three storage
    durations: static, automatic, and allocated. Allocated storage is described in 7.20.3.
2   The lifetime of an object is the portion of program execution during which storage is
    guaranteed to be reserved for it. An object exists, has a constant address,25) and retains
    its last-stored value throughout its lifetime.26) If an object is referred to outside of its
    lifetime, the behavior is undefined. The value of a pointer becomes indeterminate when
    the object it points to reaches the end of its lifetime.
3   An object whose identifier is declared with external or internal linkage, or with the
    storage-class specifier static has static storage duration. Its lifetime is the entire
    execution of the program and its stored value is initialized only once, prior to program
    startup.
4   An object whose identifier is declared with no linkage and without the storage-class
    specifier static has automatic storage duration.
5   For such an object that does not have a variable length array type, its lifetime extends
    from entry into the block with which it is associated until execution of that block ends in
    any way. (Entering an enclosed block or calling a function suspends, but does not end,
    execution of the current block.) If the block is entered recursively, a new instance of the
    object is created each time. The initial value of the object is indeterminate. If an
    initialization is specified for the object, it is performed each time the declaration is
    reached in the execution of the block; otherwise, the value becomes indeterminate each
    time the declaration is reached.
6   For such an object that does have a variable length array type, its lifetime extends from
    the declaration of the object until execution of the program leaves the scope of the
    declaration.27) If the scope is entered recursively, a new instance of the object is created
    each time. The initial value of the object is indeterminate.
    Forward references: statements (6.8), function calls (6.5.2.2), declarators (6.7.5), array
    declarators (6.7.5.2), initialization (6.7.8).




    25) The term ‘‘constant address’’ means that two pointers to the object constructed at possibly different
        times will compare equal. The address may be different during two different executions of the same
        program.
    26) In the case of a volatile object, the last store need not be explicit in the program.
    27) Leaving the innermost block containing the declaration, or jumping to a point in that block or an
        embedded block prior to the declaration, leaves the scope of the declaration.

    32                                                Language                                       §6.2.4
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                  ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.2.5 Types
1   The meaning of a value stored in an object or returned by a function is determined by the
    type of the expression used to access it. (An identifier declared to be an object is the
    simplest such expression; the type is specified in the declaration of the identifier.) Types
    are partitioned into object types (types that fully describe objects), function types (types
    that describe functions), and incomplete types (types that describe objects but lack
    information needed to determine their sizes).
2   An object declared as type _Bool is large enough to store the values 0 and 1.
3   An object declared as type char is large enough to store any member of the basic
    execution character set. If a member of the basic execution character set is stored in a
    char object, its value is guaranteed to be positive. If any other character is stored in a
    char object, the resulting value is implementation-defined but shall be within the range
    of values that can be represented in that type.
4   There are five standard signed integer types, designated as signed char, short
    int, int, long int, and long long int. (These and other types may be
    designated in several additional ways, as described in 6.7.2.) There may also be
    implementation-defined extended signed integer types.28) The standard and extended
    signed integer types are collectively called signed integer types.29)
5   An object declared as type signed char occupies the same amount of storage as a
    ‘‘plain’’ char object. A ‘‘plain’’ int object has the natural size suggested by the
    architecture of the execution environment (large enough to contain any value in the range
    INT_MIN to INT_MAX as defined in the header <limits.h>).
6   For each of the signed integer types, there is a corresponding (but different) unsigned
    integer type (designated with the keyword unsigned) that uses the same amount of
    storage (including sign information) and has the same alignment requirements. The type
    _Bool and the unsigned integer types that correspond to the standard signed integer
    types are the standard unsigned integer types. The unsigned integer types that
    correspond to the extended signed integer types are the extended unsigned integer types.
    The standard and extended unsigned integer types are collectively called unsigned integer
    types.30)



    28) Implementation-defined keywords shall have the form of an identifier reserved for any use as
        described in 7.1.3.
    29) Therefore, any statement in this Standard about signed integer types also applies to the extended
        signed integer types.
    30) Therefore, any statement in this Standard about unsigned integer types also applies to the extended
        unsigned integer types.

    §6.2.5                                       Language                                               33
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                   ©ISO/IEC


7    The standard signed integer types and standard unsigned integer types are collectively
     called the standard integer types, the extended signed integer types and extended
     unsigned integer types are collectively called the extended integer types.
8    For any two integer types with the same signedness and different integer conversion rank
     (see 6.3.1.1), the range of values of the type with smaller integer conversion rank is a
     subrange of the values of the other type.
9    The range of nonnegative values of a signed integer type is a subrange of the
     corresponding unsigned integer type, and the representation of the same value in each
     type is the same.31) A computation involving unsigned operands can never overflow,
     because a result that cannot be represented by the resulting unsigned integer type is
     reduced modulo the number that is one greater than the largest value that can be
     represented by the resulting type.
10   There are three real floating types, designated as float, double, and long
     double.32) The set of values of the type float is a subset of the set of values of the
     type double; the set of values of the type double is a subset of the set of values of the
     type long double.
11   There are three complex types, designated as float _Complex, double
     _Complex, and long double _Complex.33) The real floating and complex types
     are collectively called the floating types.
12   For each floating type there is a corresponding real type, which is always a real floating
     type. For real floating types, it is the same type. For complex types, it is the type given
     by deleting the keyword _Complex from the type name.
13   Each complex type has the same representation and alignment requirements as an array
     type containing exactly two elements of the corresponding real type; the first element is
     equal to the real part, and the second element to the imaginary part, of the complex
     number.
14   The type char, the signed and unsigned integer types, and the floating types are
     collectively called the basic types. Even if the implementation defines two or more basic
     types to have the same representation, they are nevertheless different types.34)


     31) The same representation and alignment requirements are meant to imply interchangeability as
         arguments to functions, return values from functions, and members of unions.
     32) See ‘‘future language directions’’ (6.11.1).
     33) A specification for imaginary types is in informative annex G.
     34) An implementation may define new keywords that provide alternative ways to designate a basic (or
         any other) type; this does not violate the requirement that all basic types be different.
         Implementation-defined keywords shall have the form of an identifier reserved for any use as
         described in 7.1.3.

     34                                                 Language                                  §6.2.5
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


15   The three types char, signed char, and unsigned char are collectively called
     the character types. The implementation shall define char to have the same range,
     representation, and behavior as either signed char or unsigned char.35)
16   An enumeration comprises a set of named integer constant values. Each distinct
     enumeration constitutes a different enumerated type.
17   The type char, the signed and unsigned integer types, and the enumerated types are
     collectively called integer types. The integer and real floating types are collectively called
     real types.
18   Integer and floating types are collectively called arithmetic types. Each arithmetic type
     belongs to one type domain: the real type domain comprises the real types, the complex
     type domain comprises the complex types.
19   The void type comprises an empty set of values; it is an incomplete type that cannot be
     completed.
20   Any number of derived types can be constructed from the object, function, and
     incomplete types, as follows:
     — An array type describes a contiguously allocated nonempty set of objects with a
       particular member object type, called the element type.36) Array types are
       characterized by their element type and by the number of elements in the array. An
       array type is said to be derived from its element type, and if its element type is T , the
       array type is sometimes called ‘‘array of T ’’. The construction of an array type from
       an element type is called ‘‘array type derivation’’.
     — A structure type describes a sequentially allocated nonempty set of member objects
       (and, in certain circumstances, an incomplete array), each of which has an optionally
       specified name and possibly distinct type.
     — A union type describes an overlapping nonempty set of member objects, each of
       which has an optionally specified name and possibly distinct type.
     — A function type describes a function with specified return type. A function type is
       characterized by its return type and the number and types of its parameters. A
       function type is said to be derived from its return type, and if its return type is T , the
       function type is sometimes called ‘‘function returning T ’’. The construction of a
       function type from a return type is called ‘‘function type derivation’’.



     35) CHAR_MIN, defined in <limits.h>, will have one of the values 0 or SCHAR_MIN, and this can be
         used to distinguish the two options. Irrespective of the choice made, char is a separate type from the
         other two and is not compatible with either.
     36) Since object types do not include incomplete types, an array of incomplete type cannot be constructed.

     §6.2.5                                         Language                                                35
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                  ©ISO/IEC


     — A pointer type may be derived from a function type, an object type, or an incomplete
       type, called the referenced type. A pointer type describes an object whose value
       provides a reference to an entity of the referenced type. A pointer type derived from
       the referenced type T is sometimes called ‘‘pointer to T ’’. The construction of a
       pointer type from a referenced type is called ‘‘pointer type derivation’’.
     These methods of constructing derived types can be applied recursively.
21   Arithmetic types and pointer types are collectively called scalar types. Array and
     structure types are collectively called aggregate types.37)
22   An array type of unknown size is an incomplete type. It is completed, for an identifier of
     that type, by specifying the size in a later declaration (with internal or external linkage).
     A structure or union type of unknown content (as described in 6.7.2.3) is an incomplete
     type. It is completed, for all declarations of that type, by declaring the same structure or
     union tag with its defining content later in the same scope.
23   Array, function, and pointer types are collectively called derived declarator types. A
     declarator type derivation from a type T is the construction of a derived declarator type
     from T by the application of an array-type, a function-type, or a pointer-type derivation to
     T.
24   A type is characterized by its type category, which is either the outermost derivation of a
     derived type (as noted above in the construction of derived types), or the type itself if the
     type consists of no derived types.
25   Any type so far mentioned is an unqualified type. Each unqualified type has several
     qualified versions of its type,38) corresponding to the combinations of one, two, or all
     three of the const, volatile, and restrict qualifiers. The qualified or unqualified
     versions of a type are distinct types that belong to the same type category and have the
     same representation and alignment requirements.39) A derived type is not qualified by the
     qualifiers (if any) of the type from which it is derived.
26   A pointer to void shall have the same representation and alignment requirements as a
     pointer to a character type.39) Similarly, pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of
     compatible types shall have the same representation and alignment requirements. All
     pointers to structure types shall have the same representation and alignment requirements
     as each other. All pointers to union types shall have the same representation and
     alignment requirements as each other. Pointers to other types need not have the same

     37) Note that aggregate type does not include union type because an object with union type can only
         contain one member at a time.
     38) See 6.7.3 regarding qualified array and function types.
     39) The same representation and alignment requirements are meant to imply interchangeability as
         arguments to functions, return values from functions, and members of unions.

     36                                             Language                                     §6.2.5
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


     representation or alignment requirements.
27   EXAMPLE 1 The type designated as ‘‘float *’’ has type ‘‘pointer to float’’. Its type category is
     pointer, not a floating type. The const-qualified version of this type is designated as ‘‘float * const’’
     whereas the type designated as ‘‘const float *’’ is not a qualified type — its type is ‘‘pointer to const-
     qualified float’’ and is a pointer to a qualified type.

28   EXAMPLE 2 The type designated as ‘‘struct tag (*[5])(float)’’ has type ‘‘array of pointer to
     function returning struct tag’’. The array has length five and the function has a single parameter of type
     float. Its type category is array.

     Forward references: compatible type and composite type (6.2.7), declarations (6.7).
     6.2.6 Representations of types
     6.2.6.1 General
1    The representations of all types are unspecified except as stated in this subclause.
2    Except for bit-fields, objects are composed of contiguous sequences of one or more bytes,
     the number, order, and encoding of which are either explicitly specified or
     implementation-defined.
3    Values stored in unsigned bit-fields and objects of type unsigned char shall be
     represented using a pure binary notation.40)
4    Values stored in non-bit-field objects of any other object type consist of n × CHAR_BIT
     bits, where n is the size of an object of that type, in bytes. The value may be copied into
     an object of type unsigned char [n] (e.g., by memcpy); the resulting set of bytes is
     called the object representation of the value. Values stored in bit-fields consist of m bits,
     where m is the size specified for the bit-field. The object representation is the set of m
     bits the bit-field comprises in the addressable storage unit holding it. Two values (other
     than NaNs) with the same object representation compare equal, but values that compare
     equal may have different object representations.
5    Certain object representations need not represent a value of the object type. If the stored
     value of an object has such a representation and is read by an lvalue expression that does
     not have character type, the behavior is undefined. If such a representation is produced
     by a side effect that modifies all or any part of the object by an lvalue expression that
     does not have character type, the behavior is undefined.41) Such a representation is called
     a trap representation.

     40) A positional representation for integers that uses the binary digits 0 and 1, in which the values
         represented by successive bits are additive, begin with 1, and are multiplied by successive integral
         powers of 2, except perhaps the bit with the highest position. (Adapted from the American National
         Dictionary for Information Processing Systems.) A byte contains CHAR_BIT bits, and the values of
         type unsigned char range from 0 to 2
                                                   CHAR_BIT
                                                             − 1.
     41) Thus, an automatic variable can be initialized to a trap representation without causing undefined
         behavior, but the value of the variable cannot be used until a proper value is stored in it.

     §6.2.6.1                                       Language                                                37
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                          ©ISO/IEC


6   When a value is stored in an object of structure or union type, including in a member
    object, the bytes of the object representation that correspond to any padding bytes take
    unspecified values.42) The values of padding bytes shall not affect whether the value of
    such an object is a trap representation. Those bits of a structure or union object that are
    in the same byte as a bit-field member, but are not part of that member, shall similarly not
    affect whether the value of such an object is a trap representation.
7   When a value is stored in a member of an object of union type, the bytes of the object
    representation that do not correspond to that member but do correspond to other members
    take unspecified values, but the value of the union object shall not thereby become a trap
    representation.
8   Where an operator is applied to a value that has more than one object representation,
    which object representation is used shall not affect the value of the result.43) Where a
    value is stored in an object using a type that has more than one object representation for
    that value, it is unspecified which representation is used, but a trap representation shall
    not be generated.
    Forward references: declarations (6.7), expressions (6.5), lvalues, arrays, and function
    designators (6.3.2.1).
    6.2.6.2 Integer types
1   For unsigned integer types other than unsigned char, the bits of the object
    representation shall be divided into two groups: value bits and padding bits (there need
    not be any of the latter). If there are N value bits, each bit shall represent a different
    power of 2 between 1 and 2 N −1 , so that objects of that type shall be capable of
    representing values from 0 to 2 N − 1 using a pure binary representation; this shall be
    known as the value representation. The values of any padding bits are unspecified.44)
2   For signed integer types, the bits of the object representation shall be divided into three
    groups: value bits, padding bits, and the sign bit. There need not be any padding bits;
    there shall be exactly one sign bit. Each bit that is a value bit shall have the same value as


    42) Thus, for example, structure assignment may be implemented element-at-a-time or via memcpy.
    43) It is possible for objects x and y with the same effective type T to have the same value when they are
        accessed as objects of type T, but to have different values in other contexts. In particular, if == is
        defined for type T, then x == y does not imply that memcmp(&x, &y, sizeof (T)) == 0.
        Furthermore, x == y does not necessarily imply that x and y have the same value; other operations
        on values of type T may distinguish between them.
    44) Some combinations of padding bits might generate trap representations, for example, if one padding
        bit is a parity bit. Regardless, no arithmetic operation on valid values can generate a trap
        representation other than as part of an exceptional condition such as an overflow, and this cannot occur
        with unsigned types. All other combinations of padding bits are alternative object representations of
        the value specified by the value bits.

    38                                              Language                                          §6.2.6.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    the same bit in the object representation of the corresponding unsigned type (if there are
    M value bits in the signed type and N in the unsigned type, then M ≤ N ). If the sign bit
    is zero, it shall not affect the resulting value. If the sign bit is one, the value shall be
    modified in one of the following ways:
    — the corresponding value with sign bit 0 is negated (sign and magnitude);
    — the sign bit has the value −(2 N ) (two’s complement);
    — the sign bit has the value −(2 N − 1) (one’s complement).
    Which of these applies is implementation-defined, as is whether the value with sign bit 1
    and all value bits zero (for the first two), or with sign bit and all value bits 1 (for one’s
    complement), is a trap representation or a normal value. In the case of sign and
    magnitude and one’s complement, if this representation is a normal value it is called a
    negative zero.
3   If the implementation supports negative zeros, they shall be generated only by:
    — the &, |, ˆ, ˜, <<, and >> operators with arguments that produce such a value;
    — the +, -, *, /, and % operators where one argument is a negative zero and the result is
      zero;
    — compound assignment operators based on the above cases.
    It is unspecified whether these cases actually generate a negative zero or a normal zero,
    and whether a negative zero becomes a normal zero when stored in an object.
4   If the implementation does not support negative zeros, the behavior of the &, |, ˆ, ˜, <<,
    and >> operators with arguments that would produce such a value is undefined.
5   The values of any padding bits are unspecified.45) A valid (non-trap) object representation
    of a signed integer type where the sign bit is zero is a valid object representation of the
    corresponding unsigned type, and shall represent the same value.
6   The precision of an integer type is the number of bits it uses to represent values,
    excluding any sign and padding bits. The width of an integer type is the same but
    including any sign bit; thus for unsigned integer types the two values are the same, while
    for signed integer types the width is one greater than the precision.




    45) Some combinations of padding bits might generate trap representations, for example, if one padding
        bit is a parity bit. Regardless, no arithmetic operation on valid values can generate a trap
        representation other than as part of an exceptional condition such as an overflow. All other
        combinations of padding bits are alternative object representations of the value specified by the value
        bits.

    §6.2.6.2                                       Language                                                 39
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                ©ISO/IEC


    6.2.7 Compatible type and composite type
1   Two types have compatible type if their types are the same. Additional rules for
    determining whether two types are compatible are described in 6.7.2 for type specifiers,
    in 6.7.3 for type qualifiers, and in 6.7.5 for declarators.46) Moreover, two structure,
    union, or enumerated types declared in separate translation units are compatible if their
    tags and members satisfy the following requirements: If one is declared with a tag, the
    other shall be declared with the same tag. If both are completed types, then the following
    additional requirements apply: there shall be a one-to-one correspondence between their
    members such that each pair of corresponding members are declared with compatible
    types, and such that if one member of a corresponding pair is declared with a name, the
    other member is declared with the same name. For two structures, corresponding
    members shall be declared in the same order. For two structures or unions, corresponding
    bit-fields shall have the same widths. For two enumerations, corresponding members
    shall have the same values.
2   All declarations that refer to the same object or function shall have compatible type;
    otherwise, the behavior is undefined.
3   A composite type can be constructed from two types that are compatible; it is a type that
    is compatible with both of the two types and satisfies the following conditions:
    — If one type is an array of known constant size, the composite type is an array of that
      size; otherwise, if one type is a variable length array, the composite type is that type.
    — If only one type is a function type with a parameter type list (a function prototype),
      the composite type is a function prototype with the parameter type list.
    — If both types are function types with parameter type lists, the type of each parameter
      in the composite parameter type list is the composite type of the corresponding
      parameters.
    These rules apply recursively to the types from which the two types are derived.
4   For an identifier with internal or external linkage declared in a scope in which a prior
    declaration of that identifier is visible,47) if the prior declaration specifies internal or
    external linkage, the type of the identifier at the later declaration becomes the composite
    type.




    46) Two types need not be identical to be compatible.
    47) As specified in 6.2.1, the later declaration might hide the prior declaration.

    40                                               Language                               §6.2.7
    ©ISO/IEC                                                          ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


5   EXAMPLE        Given the following two file scope declarations:
             int f(int (*)(), double (*)[3]);
             int f(int (*)(char *), double (*)[]);
    The resulting composite type for the function is:
             int f(int (*)(char *), double (*)[3]);




    §6.2.7                                          Language                            41
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                          ©ISO/IEC


    6.3 Conversions
1   Several operators convert operand values from one type to another automatically. This
    subclause specifies the result required from such an implicit conversion, as well as those
    that result from a cast operation (an explicit conversion). The list in 6.3.1.8 summarizes
    the conversions performed by most ordinary operators; it is supplemented as required by
    the discussion of each operator in 6.5.
2   Conversion of an operand value to a compatible type causes no change to the value or the
    representation.
    Forward references: cast operators (6.5.4).
    6.3.1 Arithmetic operands
    6.3.1.1 Boolean, characters, and integers
1   Every integer type has an integer conversion rank defined as follows:
    — No two signed integer types shall have the same rank, even if they have the same
      representation.
    — The rank of a signed integer type shall be greater than the rank of any signed integer
      type with less precision.
    — The rank of long long int shall be greater than the rank of long int, which
      shall be greater than the rank of int, which shall be greater than the rank of short
      int, which shall be greater than the rank of signed char.
    — The rank of any unsigned integer type shall equal the rank of the corresponding
      signed integer type, if any.
    — The rank of any standard integer type shall be greater than the rank of any extended
      integer type with the same width.
    — The rank of char shall equal the rank of signed char and unsigned char.
    — The rank of _Bool shall be less than the rank of all other standard integer types.
    — The rank of any enumerated type shall equal the rank of the compatible integer type
      (see 6.7.2.2).
    — The rank of any extended signed integer type relative to another extended signed
      integer type with the same precision is implementation-defined, but still subject to the
      other rules for determining the integer conversion rank.
    — For all integer types T1, T2, and T3, if T1 has greater rank than T2 and T2 has
      greater rank than T3, then T1 has greater rank than T3.
2   The following may be used in an expression wherever an int or unsigned int may
    be used:

    42                                      Language                                 §6.3.1.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    — An object or expression with an integer type whose integer conversion rank is less
      than the rank of int and unsigned int.
    — A bit-field of type _Bool, int, signed int, or unsigned int.
    If an int can represent all values of the original type, the value is converted to an int;
    otherwise, it is converted to an unsigned int. These are called the integer
    promotions.48) All other types are unchanged by the integer promotions.
3   The integer promotions preserve value including sign. As discussed earlier, whether a
    ‘‘plain’’ char is treated as signed is implementation-defined.
    Forward references: enumeration specifiers (6.7.2.2), structure and union specifiers
    (6.7.2.1).
    6.3.1.2 Boolean type
1   When any scalar value is converted to _Bool, the result is 0 if the value compares equal
    to 0; otherwise, the result is 1.
    6.3.1.3 Signed and unsigned integers
1   When a value with integer type is converted to another integer type other than _Bool, if
    the value can be represented by the new type, it is unchanged.
2   Otherwise, if the new type is unsigned, the value is converted by repeatedly adding or
    subtracting one more than the maximum value that can be represented in the new type
    until the value is in the range of the new type.49)
3   Otherwise, the new type is signed and the value cannot be represented in it; either the
    result is implementation-defined or an implementation-defined signal is raised.
    6.3.1.4 Real floating and integer
1   When a finite value of real floating type is converted to an integer type other than _Bool,
    the fractional part is discarded (i.e., the value is truncated toward zero). If the value of
    the integral part cannot be represented by the integer type, the behavior is undefined.50)
2   When a value of integer type is converted to a real floating type, if the value being
    converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged. If the value being
    converted is in the range of values that can be represented but cannot be represented

    48) The integer promotions are applied only: as part of the usual arithmetic conversions, to certain
        argument expressions, to the operands of the unary +, -, and ˜ operators, and to both operands of the
        shift operators, as specified by their respective subclauses.
    49) The rules describe arithmetic on the mathematical value, not the value of a given type of expression.
    50) The remaindering operation performed when a value of integer type is converted to unsigned type
        need not be performed when a value of real floating type is converted to unsigned type. Thus, the
        range of portable real floating values is (−1, Utype_MAX+1).

    §6.3.1.4                                       Language                                                 43
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                            ©ISO/IEC


    exactly, the result is either the nearest higher or nearest lower representable value, chosen
    in an implementation-defined manner. If the value being converted is outside the range of
    values that can be represented, the behavior is undefined.
    6.3.1.5 Real floating types
1   When a float is promoted to double or long double, or a double is promoted
    to long double, its value is unchanged.
2   When a double is demoted to float, a long double is demoted to double or
    float, or a value being represented in greater precision and range than required by its
    semantic type (see 6.3.1.8) is explicitly converted to its semantic type, if the value being
    converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged. If the value being
    converted is in the range of values that can be represented but cannot be represented
    exactly, the result is either the nearest higher or nearest lower representable value, chosen
    in an implementation-defined manner. If the value being converted is outside the range of
    values that can be represented, the behavior is undefined.
    6.3.1.6 Complex types
1   When a value of complex type is converted to another complex type, both the real and
    imaginary parts follow the conversion rules for the corresponding real types.
    6.3.1.7 Real and complex
1   When a value of real type is converted to a complex type, the real part of the complex
    result value is determined by the rules of conversion to the corresponding real type and
    the imaginary part of the complex result value is a positive zero or an unsigned zero.
2   When a value of complex type is converted to a real type, the imaginary part of the
    complex value is discarded and the value of the real part is converted according to the
    conversion rules for the corresponding real type.
    6.3.1.8 Usual arithmetic conversions
1   Many operators that expect operands of arithmetic type cause conversions and yield result
    types in a similar way. The purpose is to determine a common real type for the operands
    and result. For the specified operands, each operand is converted, without change of type
    domain, to a type whose corresponding real type is the common real type. Unless
    explicitly stated otherwise, the common real type is also the corresponding real type of
    the result, whose type domain is the type domain of the operands if they are the same,
    and complex otherwise. This pattern is called the usual arithmetic conversions:
          First, if the corresponding real type of either operand is long double, the other
          operand is converted, without change of type domain, to a type whose
          corresponding real type is long double.



    44                                       Language                                   §6.3.1.8
    ©ISO/IEC                                                              ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


          Otherwise, if the corresponding real type of either operand is double, the other
          operand is converted, without change of type domain, to a type whose
          corresponding real type is double.
          Otherwise, if the corresponding real type of either operand is float, the other
          operand is converted, without change of type domain, to a type whose
          corresponding real type is float.51)
          Otherwise, the integer promotions are performed on both operands. Then the
          following rules are applied to the promoted operands:
                 If both operands have the same type, then no further conversion is needed.
                 Otherwise, if both operands have signed integer types or both have unsigned
                 integer types, the operand with the type of lesser integer conversion rank is
                 converted to the type of the operand with greater rank.
                 Otherwise, if the operand that has unsigned integer type has rank greater or
                 equal to the rank of the type of the other operand, then the operand with
                 signed integer type is converted to the type of the operand with unsigned
                 integer type.
                 Otherwise, if the type of the operand with signed integer type can represent
                 all of the values of the type of the operand with unsigned integer type, then
                 the operand with unsigned integer type is converted to the type of the
                 operand with signed integer type.
                 Otherwise, both operands are converted to the unsigned integer type
                 corresponding to the type of the operand with signed integer type.
2   The values of floating operands and of the results of floating expressions may be
    represented in greater precision and range than that required by the type; the types are not
    changed thereby.52)




    51) For example, addition of a double _Complex and a float entails just the conversion of the
        float operand to double (and yields a double _Complex result).
    52) The cast and assignment operators are still required to perform their specified conversions as
        described in 6.3.1.4 and 6.3.1.5.

    §6.3.1.8                                   Language                                            45
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


    6.3.2 Other operands
    6.3.2.1 Lvalues, arrays, and function designators
1   An lvalue is an expression with an object type or an incomplete type other than void;53)
    if an lvalue does not designate an object when it is evaluated, the behavior is undefined.
    When an object is said to have a particular type, the type is specified by the lvalue used to
    designate the object. A modifiable lvalue is an lvalue that does not have array type, does
    not have an incomplete type, does not have a const-qualified type, and if it is a structure
    or union, does not have any member (including, recursively, any member or element of
    all contained aggregates or unions) with a const-qualified type.
2   Except when it is the operand of the sizeof operator, the unary & operator, the ++
    operator, the -- operator, or the left operand of the . operator or an assignment operator,
    an lvalue that does not have array type is converted to the value stored in the designated
    object (and is no longer an lvalue). If the lvalue has qualified type, the value has the
    unqualified version of the type of the lvalue; otherwise, the value has the type of the
    lvalue. If the lvalue has an incomplete type and does not have array type, the behavior is
    undefined.
3   Except when it is the operand of the sizeof operator or the unary & operator, or is a
    string literal used to initialize an array, an expression that has type ‘‘array of type’’ is
    converted to an expression with type ‘‘pointer to type’’ that points to the initial element of
    the array object and is not an lvalue. If the array object has register storage class, the
    behavior is undefined.
4   A function designator is an expression that has function type. Except when it is the
    operand of the sizeof operator54) or the unary & operator, a function designator with
    type ‘‘function returning type’’ is converted to an expression that has type ‘‘pointer to
    function returning type’’.
    Forward references: address and indirection operators (6.5.3.2), assignment operators
    (6.5.16), common definitions <stddef.h> (7.17), initialization (6.7.8), postfix
    increment and decrement operators (6.5.2.4), prefix increment and decrement operators
    (6.5.3.1), the sizeof operator (6.5.3.4), structure and union members (6.5.2.3).


    53) The name ‘‘lvalue’’ comes originally from the assignment expression E1 = E2, in which the left
        operand E1 is required to be a (modifiable) lvalue. It is perhaps better considered as representing an
        object ‘‘locator value’’. What is sometimes called ‘‘rvalue’’ is in this International Standard described
        as the ‘‘value of an expression’’.
         An obvious example of an lvalue is an identifier of an object. As a further example, if E is a unary
         expression that is a pointer to an object, *E is an lvalue that designates the object to which E points.
    54) Because this conversion does not occur, the operand of the sizeof operator remains a function
        designator and violates the constraint in 6.5.3.4.

    46                                              Language                                           §6.3.2.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                          ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.3.2.2 void
1   The (nonexistent) value of a void expression (an expression that has type void) shall not
    be used in any way, and implicit or explicit conversions (except to void) shall not be
    applied to such an expression. If an expression of any other type is evaluated as a void
    expression, its value or designator is discarded. (A void expression is evaluated for its
    side effects.)
    6.3.2.3 Pointers
1   A pointer to void may be converted to or from a pointer to any incomplete or object
    type. A pointer to any incomplete or object type may be converted to a pointer to void
    and back again; the result shall compare equal to the original pointer.
2   For any qualifier q, a pointer to a non-q-qualified type may be converted to a pointer to
    the q-qualified version of the type; the values stored in the original and converted pointers
    shall compare equal.
3   An integer constant expression with the value 0, or such an expression cast to type
    void *, is called a null pointer constant.55) If a null pointer constant is converted to a
    pointer type, the resulting pointer, called a null pointer, is guaranteed to compare unequal
    to a pointer to any object or function.
4   Conversion of a null pointer to another pointer type yields a null pointer of that type.
    Any two null pointers shall compare equal.
5   An integer may be converted to any pointer type. Except as previously specified, the
    result is implementation-defined, might not be correctly aligned, might not point to an
    entity of the referenced type, and might be a trap representation.56)
6   Any pointer type may be converted to an integer type. Except as previously specified, the
    result is implementation-defined. If the result cannot be represented in the integer type,
    the behavior is undefined. The result need not be in the range of values of any integer
    type.
7   A pointer to an object or incomplete type may be converted to a pointer to a different
    object or incomplete type. If the resulting pointer is not correctly aligned57) for the
    pointed-to type, the behavior is undefined. Otherwise, when converted back again, the
    result shall compare equal to the original pointer. When a pointer to an object is


    55) The macro NULL is defined in <stddef.h> (and other headers) as a null pointer constant; see 7.17.
    56) The mapping functions for converting a pointer to an integer or an integer to a pointer are intended to
        be consistent with the addressing structure of the execution environment.
    57) In general, the concept ‘‘correctly aligned’’ is transitive: if a pointer to type A is correctly aligned for a
        pointer to type B, which in turn is correctly aligned for a pointer to type C, then a pointer to type A is
        correctly aligned for a pointer to type C.

    §6.3.2.3                                          Language                                                    47
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                            ©ISO/IEC


    converted to a pointer to a character type, the result points to the lowest addressed byte of
    the object. Successive increments of the result, up to the size of the object, yield pointers
    to the remaining bytes of the object.
8   A pointer to a function of one type may be converted to a pointer to a function of another
    type and back again; the result shall compare equal to the original pointer. If a converted
    pointer is used to call a function whose type is not compatible with the pointed-to type,
    the behavior is undefined.
    Forward references: cast operators (6.5.4), equality operators (6.5.9), integer types
    capable of holding object pointers (7.18.1.4), simple assignment (6.5.16.1).




    48                                       Language                                   §6.3.2.3
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.4 Lexical elements
    Syntax
1            token:
                      keyword
                      identifier
                      constant
                      string-literal
                      punctuator
             preprocessing-token:
                    header-name
                    identifier
                    pp-number
                    character-constant
                    string-literal
                    punctuator
                    each non-white-space character that cannot be one of the above
    Constraints
2   Each preprocessing token that is converted to a token shall have the lexical form of a
    keyword, an identifier, a constant, a string literal, or a punctuator.
    Semantics
3   A token is the minimal lexical element of the language in translation phases 7 and 8. The
    categories of tokens are: keywords, identifiers, constants, string literals, and punctuators.
    A preprocessing token is the minimal lexical element of the language in translation
    phases 3 through 6. The categories of preprocessing tokens are: header names,
    identifiers, preprocessing numbers, character constants, string literals, punctuators, and
    single non-white-space characters that do not lexically match the other preprocessing
    token categories.58) If a ' or a " character matches the last category, the behavior is
    undefined. Preprocessing tokens can be separated by white space; this consists of
    comments (described later), or white-space characters (space, horizontal tab, new-line,
    vertical tab, and form-feed), or both. As described in 6.10, in certain circumstances
    during translation phase 4, white space (or the absence thereof) serves as more than
    preprocessing token separation. White space may appear within a preprocessing token
    only as part of a header name or between the quotation characters in a character constant
    or string literal.



    58) An additional category, placemarkers, is used internally in translation phase 4 (see 6.10.3.3); it cannot
        occur in source files.

    §6.4                                            Language                                                 49
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                         ©ISO/IEC


4   If the input stream has been parsed into preprocessing tokens up to a given character, the
    next preprocessing token is the longest sequence of characters that could constitute a
    preprocessing token. There is one exception to this rule: a header name preprocessing
    token is only recognized within a #include preprocessing directive, and within such a
    directive, a sequence of characters that could be either a header name or a string literal is
    recognized as the former.
5   EXAMPLE 1 The program fragment 1Ex is parsed as a preprocessing number token (one that is not a
    valid floating or integer constant token), even though a parse as the pair of preprocessing tokens 1 and Ex
    might produce a valid expression (for example, if Ex were a macro defined as +1). Similarly, the program
    fragment 1E1 is parsed as a preprocessing number (one that is a valid floating constant token), whether or
    not E is a macro name.

6   EXAMPLE 2 The program fragment x+++++y is parsed as x ++ ++ + y, which violates a constraint on
    increment operators, even though the parse x ++ + ++ y might yield a correct expression.

    Forward references: character constants (6.4.4.4), comments (6.4.9), expressions (6.5),
    floating constants (6.4.4.2), header names (6.4.7), macro replacement (6.10.3), postfix
    increment and decrement operators (6.5.2.4), prefix increment and decrement operators
    (6.5.3.1), preprocessing directives (6.10), preprocessing numbers (6.4.8), string literals
    (6.4.5).
    6.4.1 Keywords
    Syntax
1            keyword: one of
                   auto                     enum                  restrict              unsigned
                   break                    extern                return                void
                   case                     float                 short                 volatile
                   char                     for                   signed                while
                   const                    goto                  sizeof                _Bool
                   continue                 if                    static                _Complex
                   default                  inline                struct                _Imaginary
                   do                       int                   switch
                   double                   long                  typedef
                   else                     register              union
    Semantics
2   The above tokens (case sensitive) are reserved (in translation phases 7 and 8) for use as
    keywords, and shall not be used otherwise.




    50                                             Language                                            §6.4.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                   ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.4.2 Identifiers
    6.4.2.1 General
    Syntax
1            identifier:
                      identifier-nondigit
                      identifier identifier-nondigit
                      identifier digit
             identifier-nondigit:
                      nondigit
                      universal-character-name
                      other implementation-defined characters
             nondigit: one of
                    _ a b            c    d    e     f    g    h    i     j    k    l    m
                        n o          p    q    r     s    t    u    v     w    x    y    z
                        A B          C    D    E     F    G    H    I     J    K    L    M
                        N O          P    Q    R     S    T    U    V     W    X    Y    Z
             digit: one of
                    0 1         2    3    4    5     6    7    8    9
    Semantics
2   An identifier is a sequence of nondigit characters (including the underscore _, the
    lowercase and uppercase Latin letters, and other characters) and digits, which designates
    one or more entities as described in 6.2.1. Lowercase and uppercase letters are distinct.
    There is no specific limit on the maximum length of an identifier.
3   Each universal character name in an identifier shall designate a character whose encoding
    in ISO/IEC 10646 falls into one of the ranges specified in annex D.59) The initial
    character shall not be a universal character name designating a digit. An implementation
    may allow multibyte characters that are not part of the basic source character set to
    appear in identifiers; which characters and their correspondence to universal character
    names is implementation-defined.
4   When preprocessing tokens are converted to tokens during translation phase 7, if a
    preprocessing token could be converted to either a keyword or an identifier, it is converted
    to a keyword.


    59) On systems in which linkers cannot accept extended characters, an encoding of the universal character
        name may be used in forming valid external identifiers. For example, some otherwise unused
        character or sequence of characters may be used to encode the \u in a universal character name.
        Extended characters may produce a long external identifier.

    §6.4.2.1                                       Language                                               51
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                ©ISO/IEC


    Implementation limits
5   As discussed in 5.2.4.1, an implementation may limit the number of significant initial
    characters in an identifier; the limit for an external name (an identifier that has external
    linkage) may be more restrictive than that for an internal name (a macro name or an
    identifier that does not have external linkage). The number of significant characters in an
    identifier is implementation-defined.
6   Any identifiers that differ in a significant character are different identifiers. If two
    identifiers differ only in nonsignificant characters, the behavior is undefined.
    Forward references: universal character names (6.4.3), macro replacement (6.10.3).
    6.4.2.2 Predefined identifiers
    Semantics
1   The identifier _ _func_ _ shall be implicitly declared by the translator as if,
    immediately following the opening brace of each function definition, the declaration
             static const char _ _func_ _[] = "function-name";
    appeared, where function-name is the name of the lexically-enclosing function.60)
2   This name is encoded as if the implicit declaration had been written in the source
    character set and then translated into the execution character set as indicated in translation
    phase 5.
3   EXAMPLE        Consider the code fragment:
             #include <stdio.h>
             void myfunc(void)
             {
                   printf("%s\n", _ _func_ _);
                   /* ... */
             }
    Each time the function is called, it will print to the standard output stream:
             myfunc

    Forward references: function definitions (6.9.1).




    60) Since the name _ _func_ _ is reserved for any use by the implementation (7.1.3), if any other
        identifier is explicitly declared using the name _ _func_ _, the behavior is undefined.

    52                                                Language                              §6.4.2.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.4.3 Universal character names
    Syntax
1            universal-character-name:
                    \u hex-quad
                    \U hex-quad hex-quad
             hex-quad:
                    hexadecimal-digit hexadecimal-digit
                                 hexadecimal-digit hexadecimal-digit
    Constraints
2   A universal character name shall not specify a character whose short identifier is less than
    00A0 other than 0024 ($), 0040 (@), or 0060 (‘), nor one in the range D800 through
    DFFF inclusive.61)
    Description
3   Universal character names may be used in identifiers, character constants, and string
    literals to designate characters that are not in the basic character set.
    Semantics
4   The universal character name \Unnnnnnnn designates the character whose eight-digit
    short identifier (as specified by ISO/IEC 10646) is nnnnnnnn.62) Similarly, the universal
    character name \unnnn designates the character whose four-digit short identifier is nnnn
    (and whose eight-digit short identifier is 0000nnnn).




    61) The disallowed characters are the characters in the basic character set and the code positions reserved
        by ISO/IEC 10646 for control characters, the character DELETE, and the S-zone (reserved for use by
        UTF−16).
    62) Short identifiers for characters were first specified in ISO/IEC 10646−1/AMD9:1997.

    §6.4.3                                         Language                                                 53
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                             ©ISO/IEC


    6.4.4 Constants
    Syntax
1            constant:
                    integer-constant
                    floating-constant
                    enumeration-constant
                    character-constant
    Constraints
2   The value of a constant shall be in the range of representable values for its type.
    Semantics
3   Each constant has a type, determined by its form and value, as detailed later.
    6.4.4.1 Integer constants
    Syntax
1            integer-constant:
                     decimal-constant integer-suffixopt
                     octal-constant integer-suffixopt
                     hexadecimal-constant integer-suffixopt
             decimal-constant:
                   nonzero-digit
                   decimal-constant digit
             octal-constant:
                    0
                    octal-constant octal-digit
             hexadecimal-constant:
                   hexadecimal-prefix hexadecimal-digit
                   hexadecimal-constant hexadecimal-digit
             hexadecimal-prefix: one of
                   0x 0X
             nonzero-digit: one of
                    1 2 3 4           5    6     7   8    9
             octal-digit: one of
                     0 1 2 3          4    5     6   7




    54                                         Language                                   §6.4.4.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                           ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


           hexadecimal-digit: one of
                 0 1 2 3 4                5    6    7    8   9
                 a b c d e                f
                 A B C D E                F
           integer-suffix:
                   unsigned-suffix long-suffixopt
                   unsigned-suffix long-long-suffix
                   long-suffix unsigned-suffixopt
                   long-long-suffix unsigned-suffixopt
           unsigned-suffix: one of
                  u U
           long-suffix: one of
                  l L
           long-long-suffix: one of
                  ll LL
    Description
2   An integer constant begins with a digit, but has no period or exponent part. It may have a
    prefix that specifies its base and a suffix that specifies its type.
3   A decimal constant begins with a nonzero digit and consists of a sequence of decimal
    digits. An octal constant consists of the prefix 0 optionally followed by a sequence of the
    digits 0 through 7 only. A hexadecimal constant consists of the prefix 0x or 0X followed
    by a sequence of the decimal digits and the letters a (or A) through f (or F) with values
    10 through 15 respectively.
    Semantics
4   The value of a decimal constant is computed base 10; that of an octal constant, base 8;
    that of a hexadecimal constant, base 16. The lexically first digit is the most significant.
5   The type of an integer constant is the first of the corresponding list in which its value can
    be represented.




    §6.4.4.1                                  Language                                        55
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                             ©ISO/IEC


                                                                 Octal or Hexadecimal
Suffix                      Decimal Constant                           Constant

none                int                                    int
                    long int                               unsigned int
                    long long int                          long int
                                                           unsigned long int
                                                           long long int
                                                           unsigned long long int

u or U              unsigned int                           unsigned int
                    unsigned long int                      unsigned long int
                    unsigned long long int                 unsigned long long int

l or L              long int                               long int
                    long long int                          unsigned long int
                                                           long long int
                                                           unsigned long long int

Both u or U         unsigned long int                      unsigned long int
and l or L          unsigned long long int                 unsigned long long int

ll or LL            long long int                          long long int
                                                           unsigned long long int

Both u or U         unsigned long long int                 unsigned long long int
and ll or LL
If an integer constant cannot be represented by any type in its list, it may have an
extended integer type, if the extended integer type can represent its value. If all of the
types in the list for the constant are signed, the extended integer type shall be signed. If
all of the types in the list for the constant are unsigned, the extended integer type shall be
unsigned. If the list contains both signed and unsigned types, the extended integer type
may be signed or unsigned.




56                                       Language                                    §6.4.4.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                         ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.4.4.2 Floating constants
    Syntax
1            floating-constant:
                     decimal-floating-constant
                     hexadecimal-floating-constant
             decimal-floating-constant:
                   fractional-constant exponent-partopt floating-suffixopt
                   digit-sequence exponent-part floating-suffixopt
             hexadecimal-floating-constant:
                   hexadecimal-prefix hexadecimal-fractional-constant
                                   binary-exponent-part floating-suffixopt
                   hexadecimal-prefix hexadecimal-digit-sequence
                                   binary-exponent-part floating-suffixopt
             fractional-constant:
                     digit-sequenceopt . digit-sequence
                     digit-sequence .
             exponent-part:
                   e signopt digit-sequence
                   E signopt digit-sequence
             sign: one of
                    + -
             digit-sequence:
                     digit
                     digit-sequence digit
             hexadecimal-fractional-constant:
                   hexadecimal-digit-sequenceopt .
                                  hexadecimal-digit-sequence
                   hexadecimal-digit-sequence .
             binary-exponent-part:
                    p signopt digit-sequence
                    P signopt digit-sequence
             hexadecimal-digit-sequence:
                   hexadecimal-digit
                   hexadecimal-digit-sequence hexadecimal-digit
             floating-suffix: one of
                     f l F L

    §6.4.4.2                                 Language                                  57
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                    ©ISO/IEC


    Description
2   A floating constant has a significand part that may be followed by an exponent part and a
    suffix that specifies its type. The components of the significand part may include a digit
    sequence representing the whole-number part, followed by a period (.), followed by a
    digit sequence representing the fraction part. The components of the exponent part are an
    e, E, p, or P followed by an exponent consisting of an optionally signed digit sequence.
    Either the whole-number part or the fraction part has to be present; for decimal floating
    constants, either the period or the exponent part has to be present.
    Semantics
3   The significand part is interpreted as a (decimal or hexadecimal) rational number; the
    digit sequence in the exponent part is interpreted as a decimal integer. For decimal
    floating constants, the exponent indicates the power of 10 by which the significand part is
    to be scaled. For hexadecimal floating constants, the exponent indicates the power of 2
    by which the significand part is to be scaled. For decimal floating constants, and also for
    hexadecimal floating constants when FLT_RADIX is not a power of 2, the result is either
    the nearest representable value, or the larger or smaller representable value immediately
    adjacent to the nearest representable value, chosen in an implementation-defined manner.
    For hexadecimal floating constants when FLT_RADIX is a power of 2, the result is
    correctly rounded.
4   An unsuffixed floating constant has type double. If suffixed by the letter f or F, it has
    type float. If suffixed by the letter l or L, it has type long double.
5   Floating constants are converted to internal format as if at translation-time. The
    conversion of a floating constant shall not raise an exceptional condition or a floating-
    point exception at execution time.
    Recommended practice
6   The implementation should produce a diagnostic message if a hexadecimal constant
    cannot be represented exactly in its evaluation format; the implementation should then
    proceed with the translation of the program.
7   The translation-time conversion of floating constants should match the execution-time
    conversion of character strings by library functions, such as strtod, given matching
    inputs suitable for both conversions, the same result format, and default execution-time
    rounding.63)




    63) The specification for the library functions recommends more accurate conversion than required for
        floating constants (see 7.20.1.3).

    58                                          Language                                       §6.4.4.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                           ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.4.4.3 Enumeration constants
    Syntax
1            enumeration-constant:
                   identifier
    Semantics
2   An identifier declared as an enumeration constant has type int.
    Forward references: enumeration specifiers (6.7.2.2).
    6.4.4.4 Character constants
    Syntax
1            character-constant:
                    ' c-char-sequence '
                    L' c-char-sequence '
             c-char-sequence:
                    c-char
                    c-char-sequence c-char
             c-char:
                       any member of the source character set except
                                    the single-quote ', backslash \, or new-line character
                       escape-sequence
             escape-sequence:
                    simple-escape-sequence
                    octal-escape-sequence
                    hexadecimal-escape-sequence
                    universal-character-name
             simple-escape-sequence: one of
                    \' \" \? \\
                    \a \b \f \n \r                  \t    \v
             octal-escape-sequence:
                     \ octal-digit
                     \ octal-digit octal-digit
                     \ octal-digit octal-digit octal-digit
             hexadecimal-escape-sequence:
                   \x hexadecimal-digit
                   hexadecimal-escape-sequence hexadecimal-digit



    §6.4.4.4                                   Language                                      59
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                        ©ISO/IEC


    Description
2   An integer character constant is a sequence of one or more multibyte characters enclosed
    in single-quotes, as in 'x'. A wide character constant is the same, except prefixed by the
    letter L. With a few exceptions detailed later, the elements of the sequence are any
    members of the source character set; they are mapped in an implementation-defined
    manner to members of the execution character set.
3   The single-quote ', the double-quote ", the question-mark ?, the backslash \, and
    arbitrary integer values are representable according to the following table of escape
    sequences:
           single quote '                 \'
           double quote "                 \"
           question mark ?                \?
           backslash \                    \\
           octal character                \octal digits
           hexadecimal character          \x hexadecimal digits
4   The double-quote " and question-mark ? are representable either by themselves or by the
    escape sequences \" and \?, respectively, but the single-quote ' and the backslash \
    shall be represented, respectively, by the escape sequences \' and \\.
5   The octal digits that follow the backslash in an octal escape sequence are taken to be part
    of the construction of a single character for an integer character constant or of a single
    wide character for a wide character constant. The numerical value of the octal integer so
    formed specifies the value of the desired character or wide character.
6   The hexadecimal digits that follow the backslash and the letter x in a hexadecimal escape
    sequence are taken to be part of the construction of a single character for an integer
    character constant or of a single wide character for a wide character constant. The
    numerical value of the hexadecimal integer so formed specifies the value of the desired
    character or wide character.
7   Each octal or hexadecimal escape sequence is the longest sequence of characters that can
    constitute the escape sequence.
8   In addition, characters not in the basic character set are representable by universal
    character names and certain nongraphic characters are representable by escape sequences
    consisting of the backslash \ followed by a lowercase letter: \a, \b, \f, \n, \r, \t,
    and \v.64)




    64) The semantics of these characters were discussed in 5.2.2. If any other character follows a backslash,
        the result is not a token and a diagnostic is required. See ‘‘future language directions’’ (6.11.4).

    60                                             Language                                         §6.4.4.4
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


     Constraints
9    The value of an octal or hexadecimal escape sequence shall be in the range of
     representable values for the type unsigned char for an integer character constant, or
     the unsigned type corresponding to wchar_t for a wide character constant.
     Semantics
10   An integer character constant has type int. The value of an integer character constant
     containing a single character that maps to a single-byte execution character is the
     numerical value of the representation of the mapped character interpreted as an integer.
     The value of an integer character constant containing more than one character (e.g.,
     'ab'), or containing a character or escape sequence that does not map to a single-byte
     execution character, is implementation-defined. If an integer character constant contains
     a single character or escape sequence, its value is the one that results when an object with
     type char whose value is that of the single character or escape sequence is converted to
     type int.
11   A wide character constant has type wchar_t, an integer type defined in the
     <stddef.h> header. The value of a wide character constant containing a single
     multibyte character that maps to a member of the extended execution character set is the
     wide character corresponding to that multibyte character, as defined by the mbtowc
     function, with an implementation-defined current locale. The value of a wide character
     constant containing more than one multibyte character, or containing a multibyte
     character or escape sequence not represented in the extended execution character set, is
     implementation-defined.
12   EXAMPLE 1      The construction '\0' is commonly used to represent the null character.

13   EXAMPLE 2 Consider implementations that use two’s-complement representation for integers and eight
     bits for objects that have type char. In an implementation in which type char has the same range of
     values as signed char, the integer character constant '\xFF' has the value −1; if type char has the
     same range of values as unsigned char, the character constant '\xFF' has the value +255.

14   EXAMPLE 3 Even if eight bits are used for objects that have type char, the construction '\x123'
     specifies an integer character constant containing only one character, since a hexadecimal escape sequence
     is terminated only by a non-hexadecimal character. To specify an integer character constant containing the
     two characters whose values are '\x12' and '3', the construction '\0223' may be used, since an octal
     escape sequence is terminated after three octal digits. (The value of this two-character integer character
     constant is implementation-defined.)

15   EXAMPLE 4 Even if 12 or more bits are used for objects that have type wchar_t, the construction
     L'\1234' specifies the implementation-defined value that results from the combination of the values
     0123 and '4'.

     Forward references: common definitions <stddef.h> (7.17), the mbtowc function
     (7.20.7.2).




     §6.4.4.4                                       Language                                                61
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                          ©ISO/IEC


    6.4.5 String literals
    Syntax
1            string-literal:
                     " s-char-sequenceopt "
                     L" s-char-sequenceopt "
             s-char-sequence:
                    s-char
                    s-char-sequence s-char
             s-char:
                       any member of the source character set except
                                    the double-quote ", backslash \, or new-line character
                       escape-sequence
    Description
2   A character string literal is a sequence of zero or more multibyte characters enclosed in
    double-quotes, as in "xyz". A wide string literal is the same, except prefixed by the
    letter L.
3   The same considerations apply to each element of the sequence in a character string
    literal or a wide string literal as if it were in an integer character constant or a wide
    character constant, except that the single-quote ' is representable either by itself or by the
    escape sequence \', but the double-quote " shall be represented by the escape sequence
    \".
    Semantics
4   In translation phase 6, the multibyte character sequences specified by any sequence of
    adjacent character and wide string literal tokens are concatenated into a single multibyte
    character sequence. If any of the tokens are wide string literal tokens, the resulting
    multibyte character sequence is treated as a wide string literal; otherwise, it is treated as a
    character string literal.
5   In translation phase 7, a byte or code of value zero is appended to each multibyte
    character sequence that results from a string literal or literals.65) The multibyte character
    sequence is then used to initialize an array of static storage duration and length just
    sufficient to contain the sequence. For character string literals, the array elements have
    type char, and are initialized with the individual bytes of the multibyte character
    sequence; for wide string literals, the array elements have type wchar_t, and are
    initialized with the sequence of wide characters corresponding to the multibyte character

    65) A character string literal need not be a string (see 7.1.1), because a null character may be embedded in
        it by a \0 escape sequence.

    62                                              Language                                            §6.4.5
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                   ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    sequence, as defined by the mbstowcs function with an implementation-defined current
    locale. The value of a string literal containing a multibyte character or escape sequence
    not represented in the execution character set is implementation-defined.
6   It is unspecified whether these arrays are distinct provided their elements have the
    appropriate values. If the program attempts to modify such an array, the behavior is
    undefined.
7   EXAMPLE       This pair of adjacent character string literals
             "\x12" "3"
    produces a single character string literal containing the two characters whose values are '\x12' and '3',
    because escape sequences are converted into single members of the execution character set just prior to
    adjacent string literal concatenation.

    Forward references: common definitions <stddef.h> (7.17), the mbstowcs
    function (7.20.8.1).
    6.4.6 Punctuators
    Syntax
1            punctuator: one of
                    [ ] ( ) { } . ->
                    ++ -- & * + - ˜ !
                    / % << >> < > <= >=                               ==     !=     ˆ      |    &&    ||
                    ? : ; ...
                    = *= /= %= += -= <<=                              >>=      &=     ˆ=       |=
                    , # ##
                    <: :> <% %> %: %:%:
    Semantics
2   A punctuator is a symbol that has independent syntactic and semantic significance.
    Depending on context, it may specify an operation to be performed (which in turn may
    yield a value or a function designator, produce a side effect, or some combination thereof)
    in which case it is known as an operator (other forms of operator also exist in some
    contexts). An operand is an entity on which an operator acts.




    §6.4.6                                           Language                                              63
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                   ©ISO/IEC


3   In all aspects of the language, the six tokens66)
             <:    :>      <%    %>     %:     %:%:
    behave, respectively, the same as the six tokens
             [     ]       {     }      #      ##
    except for their spelling.67)
    Forward references: expressions (6.5), declarations (6.7), preprocessing directives
    (6.10), statements (6.8).
    6.4.7 Header names
    Syntax
1            header-name:
                    < h-char-sequence >
                    " q-char-sequence "
             h-char-sequence:
                    h-char
                    h-char-sequence h-char
             h-char:
                       any member of the source character set except
                                    the new-line character and >
             q-char-sequence:
                    q-char
                    q-char-sequence q-char
             q-char:
                       any member of the source character set except
                                    the new-line character and "
    Semantics
2   The sequences in both forms of header names are mapped in an implementation-defined
    manner to headers or external source file names as specified in 6.10.2.
3   If the characters ', \, ", //, or /* occur in the sequence between the < and > delimiters,
    the behavior is undefined. Similarly, if the characters ', \, //, or /* occur in the




    66) These tokens are sometimes called ‘‘digraphs’’.
    67) Thus [ and <: behave differently when ‘‘stringized’’ (see 6.10.3.2), but can otherwise be freely
        interchanged.

    64                                            Language                                       §6.4.7
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                   ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    sequence between the " delimiters, the behavior is undefined.68) A header name
    preprocessing token is recognized only within a #include preprocessing directive.
4   EXAMPLE       The following sequence of characters:
             0x3<1/a.h>1e2
             #include <1/a.h>
             #define const.member@$
    forms the following sequence of preprocessing tokens (with each individual preprocessing token delimited
    by a { on the left and a } on the right).
             {0x3}{<}{1}{/}{a}{.}{h}{>}{1e2}
             {#}{include} {<1/a.h>}
             {#}{define} {const}{.}{member}{@}{$}

    Forward references: source file inclusion (6.10.2).
    6.4.8 Preprocessing numbers
    Syntax
1            pp-number:
                   digit
                   . digit
                   pp-number digit
                   pp-number identifier-nondigit
                   pp-number e sign
                   pp-number E sign
                   pp-number p sign
                   pp-number P sign
                   pp-number .
    Description
2   A preprocessing number begins with a digit optionally preceded by a period (.) and may
    be followed by valid identifier characters and the character sequences e+, e-, E+, E-,
    p+, p-, P+, or P-.
3   Preprocessing number tokens lexically include all floating and integer constant tokens.
    Semantics
4   A preprocessing number does not have type or a value; it acquires both after a successful
    conversion (as part of translation phase 7) to a floating constant token or an integer
    constant token.




    68) Thus, sequences of characters that resemble escape sequences cause undefined behavior.

    §6.4.8                                        Language                                               65
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                          ©ISO/IEC


    6.4.9 Comments
1   Except within a character constant, a string literal, or a comment, the characters /*
    introduce a comment. The contents of such a comment are examined only to identify
    multibyte characters and to find the characters */ that terminate it.69)
2   Except within a character constant, a string literal, or a comment, the characters //
    introduce a comment that includes all multibyte characters up to, but not including, the
    next new-line character. The contents of such a comment are examined only to identify
    multibyte characters and to find the terminating new-line character.
3   EXAMPLE
            "a//b"                              // four-character string literal
            #include "//e"                      // undefined behavior
            // */                               // comment, not syntax error
            f = g/**//h;                        // equivalent to f = g / h;
            //\
            i();                                // part of a two-line comment
            /\
            / j();                              // part of a two-line comment
            #define glue(x,y) x##y
            glue(/,/) k();                      // syntax error, not comment
            /*//*/ l();                         // equivalent to l();
            m = n//**/o
               + p;                             // equivalent to m = n + p;




    69) Thus, /* ... */ comments do not nest.

    66                                           Language                             §6.4.9
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.5 Expressions
1   An expression is a sequence of operators and operands that specifies computation of a
    value, or that designates an object or a function, or that generates side effects, or that
    performs a combination thereof.
2   Between the previous and next sequence point an object shall have its stored value
    modified at most once by the evaluation of an expression. Furthermore, the prior value
    shall be read only to determine the value to be stored.70)
3   The grouping of operators and operands is indicated by the syntax.71) Except as specified
    later (for the function-call (), &&, ||, ?:, and comma operators), the order of evaluation
    of subexpressions and the order in which side effects take place are both unspecified.
4   Some operators (the unary operator ˜, and the binary operators <<, >>, &, ˆ, and |,
    collectively described as bitwise operators) are required to have operands that have
    integer type. These operators return values that depend on the internal representations of
    integers, and have implementation-defined and undefined aspects for signed types.
5   If an exceptional condition occurs during the evaluation of an expression (that is, if the
    result is not mathematically defined or not in the range of representable values for its
    type), the behavior is undefined.
6   The effective type of an object for an access to its stored value is the declared type of the
    object, if any.72) If a value is stored into an object having no declared type through an
    lvalue having a type that is not a character type, then the type of the lvalue becomes the
    effective type of the object for that access and for subsequent accesses that do not modify


    70) This paragraph renders undefined statement expressions such as
                   i = ++i + 1;
                   a[i++] = i;
           while allowing
                   i = i + 1;
                   a[i] = i;

    71) The syntax specifies the precedence of operators in the evaluation of an expression, which is the same
        as the order of the major subclauses of this subclause, highest precedence first. Thus, for example, the
        expressions allowed as the operands of the binary + operator (6.5.6) are those expressions defined in
        6.5.1 through 6.5.6. The exceptions are cast expressions (6.5.4) as operands of unary operators
        (6.5.3), and an operand contained between any of the following pairs of operators: grouping
        parentheses () (6.5.1), subscripting brackets [] (6.5.2.1), function-call parentheses () (6.5.2.2), and
        the conditional operator ?: (6.5.15).
           Within each major subclause, the operators have the same precedence. Left- or right-associativity is
           indicated in each subclause by the syntax for the expressions discussed therein.
    72) Allocated objects have no declared type.

    §6.5                                            Language                                                67
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                          ©ISO/IEC


    the stored value. If a value is copied into an object having no declared type using
    memcpy or memmove, or is copied as an array of character type, then the effective type
    of the modified object for that access and for subsequent accesses that do not modify the
    value is the effective type of the object from which the value is copied, if it has one. For
    all other accesses to an object having no declared type, the effective type of the object is
    simply the type of the lvalue used for the access.
7   An object shall have its stored value accessed only by an lvalue expression that has one of
    the following types:73)
    — a type compatible with the effective type of the object,
    — a qualified version of a type compatible with the effective type of the object,
    — a type that is the signed or unsigned type corresponding to the effective type of the
      object,
    — a type that is the signed or unsigned type corresponding to a qualified version of the
      effective type of the object,
    — an aggregate or union type that includes one of the aforementioned types among its
      members (including, recursively, a member of a subaggregate or contained union), or
    — a character type.
8   A floating expression may be contracted, that is, evaluated as though it were an atomic
    operation, thereby omitting rounding errors implied by the source code and the
    expression evaluation method.74) The FP_CONTRACT pragma in <math.h> provides a
    way to disallow contracted expressions. Otherwise, whether and how expressions are
    contracted is implementation-defined.75)
    Forward references: the FP_CONTRACT pragma (7.12.2), copying functions (7.21.2).




    73) The intent of this list is to specify those circumstances in which an object may or may not be aliased.
    74) A contracted expression might also omit the raising of floating-point exceptions.
    75) This license is specifically intended to allow implementations to exploit fast machine instructions that
        combine multiple C operators. As contractions potentially undermine predictability, and can even
        decrease accuracy for containing expressions, their use needs to be well-defined and clearly
        documented.

    68                                              Language                                               §6.5
    ©ISO/IEC                                                             ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.5.1 Primary expressions
    Syntax
1            primary-expression:
                    identifier
                    constant
                    string-literal
                    ( expression )
    Semantics
2   An identifier is a primary expression, provided it has been declared as designating an
    object (in which case it is an lvalue) or a function (in which case it is a function
    designator).76)
3   A constant is a primary expression. Its type depends on its form and value, as detailed in
    6.4.4.
4   A string literal is a primary expression. It is an lvalue with type as detailed in 6.4.5.
5   A parenthesized expression is a primary expression. Its type and value are identical to
    those of the unparenthesized expression. It is an lvalue, a function designator, or a void
    expression if the unparenthesized expression is, respectively, an lvalue, a function
    designator, or a void expression.
    Forward references: declarations (6.7).
    6.5.2 Postfix operators
    Syntax
1            postfix-expression:
                     primary-expression
                     postfix-expression [ expression ]
                     postfix-expression ( argument-expression-listopt )
                     postfix-expression . identifier
                     postfix-expression -> identifier
                     postfix-expression ++
                     postfix-expression --
                     ( type-name ) { initializer-list }
                     ( type-name ) { initializer-list , }




    76) Thus, an undeclared identifier is a violation of the syntax.

    §6.5.2                                          Language                                    69
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


             argument-expression-list:
                   assignment-expression
                   argument-expression-list , assignment-expression
    6.5.2.1 Array subscripting
    Constraints
1   One of the expressions shall have type ‘‘pointer to object type’’, the other expression shall
    have integer type, and the result has type ‘‘type’’.
    Semantics
2   A postfix expression followed by an expression in square brackets [] is a subscripted
    designation of an element of an array object. The definition of the subscript operator []
    is that E1[E2] is identical to (*((E1)+(E2))). Because of the conversion rules that
    apply to the binary + operator, if E1 is an array object (equivalently, a pointer to the
    initial element of an array object) and E2 is an integer, E1[E2] designates the E2-th
    element of E1 (counting from zero).
3   Successive subscript operators designate an element of a multidimensional array object.
    If E is an n-dimensional array (n ≥ 2) with dimensions i × j × . . . × k, then E (used as
    other than an lvalue) is converted to a pointer to an (n − 1)-dimensional array with
    dimensions j × . . . × k. If the unary * operator is applied to this pointer explicitly, or
    implicitly as a result of subscripting, the result is the pointed-to (n − 1)-dimensional array,
    which itself is converted into a pointer if used as other than an lvalue. It follows from this
    that arrays are stored in row-major order (last subscript varies fastest).
4   EXAMPLE        Consider the array object defined by the declaration
             int x[3][5];
    Here x is a 3 × 5 array of ints; more precisely, x is an array of three element objects, each of which is an
    array of five ints. In the expression x[i], which is equivalent to (*((x)+(i))), x is first converted to
    a pointer to the initial array of five ints. Then i is adjusted according to the type of x, which conceptually
    entails multiplying i by the size of the object to which the pointer points, namely an array of five int
    objects. The results are added and indirection is applied to yield an array of five ints. When used in the
    expression x[i][j], that array is in turn converted to a pointer to the first of the ints, so x[i][j]
    yields an int.

    Forward references: additive operators (6.5.6), address and indirection operators
    (6.5.3.2), array declarators (6.7.5.2).




    70                                              Language                                            §6.5.2.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                          ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.5.2.2 Function calls
    Constraints
1   The expression that denotes the called function77) shall have type pointer to function
    returning void or returning an object type other than an array type.
2   If the expression that denotes the called function has a type that includes a prototype, the
    number of arguments shall agree with the number of parameters. Each argument shall
    have a type such that its value may be assigned to an object with the unqualified version
    of the type of its corresponding parameter.
    Semantics
3   A postfix expression followed by parentheses () containing a possibly empty, comma-
    separated list of expressions is a function call. The postfix expression denotes the called
    function. The list of expressions specifies the arguments to the function.
4   An argument may be an expression of any object type. In preparing for the call to a
    function, the arguments are evaluated, and each parameter is assigned the value of the
    corresponding argument.78)
5   If the expression that denotes the called function has type pointer to function returning an
    object type, the function call expression has the same type as that object type, and has the
    value determined as specified in 6.8.6.4. Otherwise, the function call has type void. If
    an attempt is made to modify the result of a function call or to access it after the next
    sequence point, the behavior is undefined.
6   If the expression that denotes the called function has a type that does not include a
    prototype, the integer promotions are performed on each argument, and arguments that
    have type float are promoted to double. These are called the default argument
    promotions. If the number of arguments does not equal the number of parameters, the
    behavior is undefined. If the function is defined with a type that includes a prototype, and
    either the prototype ends with an ellipsis (, ...) or the types of the arguments after
    promotion are not compatible with the types of the parameters, the behavior is undefined.
    If the function is defined with a type that does not include a prototype, and the types of
    the arguments after promotion are not compatible with those of the parameters after
    promotion, the behavior is undefined, except for the following cases:




    77) Most often, this is the result of converting an identifier that is a function designator.
    78) A function may change the values of its parameters, but these changes cannot affect the values of the
        arguments. On the other hand, it is possible to pass a pointer to an object, and the function may
        change the value of the object pointed to. A parameter declared to have array or function type is
        converted to a parameter with a pointer type as described in 6.9.1.

    §6.5.2.2                                          Language                                            71
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                       ©ISO/IEC


     — one promoted type is a signed integer type, the other promoted type is the
       corresponding unsigned integer type, and the value is representable in both types;
     — both types are pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of a character type or
       void.
7    If the expression that denotes the called function has a type that does include a prototype,
     the arguments are implicitly converted, as if by assignment, to the types of the
     corresponding parameters, taking the type of each parameter to be the unqualified version
     of its declared type. The ellipsis notation in a function prototype declarator causes
     argument type conversion to stop after the last declared parameter. The default argument
     promotions are performed on trailing arguments.
8    No other conversions are performed implicitly; in particular, the number and types of
     arguments are not compared with those of the parameters in a function definition that
     does not include a function prototype declarator.
9    If the function is defined with a type that is not compatible with the type (of the
     expression) pointed to by the expression that denotes the called function, the behavior is
     undefined.
10   The order of evaluation of the function designator, the actual arguments, and
     subexpressions within the actual arguments is unspecified, but there is a sequence point
     before the actual call.
11   Recursive function calls shall be permitted, both directly and indirectly through any chain
     of other functions.
12   EXAMPLE       In the function call
             (*pf[f1()]) (f2(), f3() + f4())
     the functions f1, f2, f3, and f4 may be called in any order. All side effects have to be completed before
     the function pointed to by pf[f1()] is called.

     Forward references: function declarators (including prototypes) (6.7.5.3), function
     definitions (6.9.1), the return statement (6.8.6.4), simple assignment (6.5.16.1).
     6.5.2.3 Structure and union members
     Constraints
1    The first operand of the . operator shall have a qualified or unqualified structure or union
     type, and the second operand shall name a member of that type.
2    The first operand of the -> operator shall have type ‘‘pointer to qualified or unqualified
     structure’’ or ‘‘pointer to qualified or unqualified union’’, and the second operand shall
     name a member of the type pointed to.




     72                                            Language                                         §6.5.2.3
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    Semantics
3   A postfix expression followed by the . operator and an identifier designates a member of
    a structure or union object. The value is that of the named member, and is an lvalue if the
    first expression is an lvalue. If the first expression has qualified type, the result has the
    so-qualified version of the type of the designated member.
4   A postfix expression followed by the -> operator and an identifier designates a member
    of a structure or union object. The value is that of the named member of the object to
    which the first expression points, and is an lvalue.79) If the first expression is a pointer to
    a qualified type, the result has the so-qualified version of the type of the designated
    member.
5   One special guarantee is made in order to simplify the use of unions: if a union contains
    several structures that share a common initial sequence (see below), and if the union
    object currently contains one of these structures, it is permitted to inspect the common
    initial part of any of them anywhere that a declaration of the completed type of the union
    is visible. Two structures share a common initial sequence if corresponding members
    have compatible types (and, for bit-fields, the same widths) for a sequence of one or more
    initial members.
6   EXAMPLE 1 If f is a function returning a structure or union, and x is a member of that structure or
    union, f().x is a valid postfix expression but is not an lvalue.

7   EXAMPLE 2       In:
             struct s { int i; const int ci; };
             struct s s;
             const struct s cs;
             volatile struct s vs;
    the various members have the types:
             s.i          int
             s.ci         const int
             cs.i         const int
             cs.ci        const int
             vs.i         volatile int
             vs.ci        volatile const int




    79) If &E is a valid pointer expression (where & is the ‘‘address-of ’’ operator, which generates a pointer to
        its operand), the expression (&E)->MOS is the same as E.MOS.

    §6.5.2.3                                        Language                                                  73
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                              ©ISO/IEC


8   EXAMPLE 3       The following is a valid fragment:
             union {
                     struct {
                           int      alltypes;
                     } n;
                     struct {
                           int      type;
                           int      intnode;
                     } ni;
                     struct {
                           int      type;
                           double doublenode;
                     } nf;
             } u;
             u.nf.type = 1;
             u.nf.doublenode = 3.14;
             /* ... */
             if (u.n.alltypes == 1)
                     if (sin(u.nf.doublenode) == 0.0)
                           /* ... */
    The following is not a valid fragment (because the union type is not visible within function f):
             struct t1 { int m; };
             struct t2 { int m; };
             int f(struct t1 * p1, struct t2 * p2)
             {
                   if (p1->m < 0)
                           p2->m = -p2->m;
                   return p1->m;
             }
             int g()
             {
                   union {
                           struct t1 s1;
                           struct t2 s2;
                   } u;
                   /* ... */
                   return f(&u.s1, &u.s2);
             }

    Forward references: address and indirection operators (6.5.3.2), structure and union
    specifiers (6.7.2.1).




    74                                              Language                                            §6.5.2.3
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.5.2.4 Postfix increment and decrement operators
    Constraints
1   The operand of the postfix increment or decrement operator shall have qualified or
    unqualified real or pointer type and shall be a modifiable lvalue.
    Semantics
2   The result of the postfix ++ operator is the value of the operand. After the result is
    obtained, the value of the operand is incremented. (That is, the value 1 of the appropriate
    type is added to it.) See the discussions of additive operators and compound assignment
    for information on constraints, types, and conversions and the effects of operations on
    pointers. The side effect of updating the stored value of the operand shall occur between
    the previous and the next sequence point.
3   The postfix -- operator is analogous to the postfix ++ operator, except that the value of
    the operand is decremented (that is, the value 1 of the appropriate type is subtracted from
    it).
    Forward references: additive operators (6.5.6), compound assignment (6.5.16.2).
    6.5.2.5 Compound literals
    Constraints
1   The type name shall specify an object type or an array of unknown size, but not a variable
    length array type.
2   No initializer shall attempt to provide a value for an object not contained within the entire
    unnamed object specified by the compound literal.
3   If the compound literal occurs outside the body of a function, the initializer list shall
    consist of constant expressions.
    Semantics
4   A postfix expression that consists of a parenthesized type name followed by a brace-
    enclosed list of initializers is a compound literal. It provides an unnamed object whose
    value is given by the initializer list.80)
5   If the type name specifies an array of unknown size, the size is determined by the
    initializer list as specified in 6.7.8, and the type of the compound literal is that of the
    completed array type. Otherwise (when the type name specifies an object type), the type
    of the compound literal is that specified by the type name. In either case, the result is an
    lvalue.


    80) Note that this differs from a cast expression. For example, a cast specifies a conversion to scalar types
        or void only, and the result of a cast expression is not an lvalue.

    §6.5.2.5                                        Language                                                 75
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


6    The value of the compound literal is that of an unnamed object initialized by the
     initializer list. If the compound literal occurs outside the body of a function, the object
     has static storage duration; otherwise, it has automatic storage duration associated with
     the enclosing block.
7    All the semantic rules and constraints for initializer lists in 6.7.8 are applicable to
     compound literals.81)
8    String literals, and compound literals with const-qualified types, need not designate
     distinct objects.82)
9    EXAMPLE 1       The file scope definition
              int *p = (int []){2, 4};
     initializes p to point to the first element of an array of two ints, the first having the value two and the
     second, four. The expressions in this compound literal are required to be constant. The unnamed object
     has static storage duration.

10   EXAMPLE 2       In contrast, in
              void f(void)
              {
                    int *p;
                    /*...*/
                    p = (int [2]){*p};
                    /*...*/
              }
     p is assigned the address of the first element of an array of two ints, the first having the value previously
     pointed to by p and the second, zero. The expressions in this compound literal need not be constant. The
     unnamed object has automatic storage duration.

11   EXAMPLE 3 Initializers with designations can be combined with compound literals. Structure objects
     created using compound literals can be passed to functions without depending on member order:
              drawline((struct point){.x=1, .y=1},
                    (struct point){.x=3, .y=4});
     Or, if drawline instead expected pointers to struct point:
              drawline(&(struct point){.x=1, .y=1},
                    &(struct point){.x=3, .y=4});

12   EXAMPLE 4       A read-only compound literal can be specified through constructions like:
              (const float []){1e0, 1e1, 1e2, 1e3, 1e4, 1e5, 1e6}




     81) For example, subobjects without explicit initializers are initialized to zero.
     82) This allows implementations to share storage for string literals and constant compound literals with
         the same or overlapping representations.

     76                                               Language                                          §6.5.2.5
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


13   EXAMPLE 5        The following three expressions have different meanings:
              "/tmp/fileXXXXXX"
              (char []){"/tmp/fileXXXXXX"}
              (const char []){"/tmp/fileXXXXXX"}
     The first always has static storage duration and has type array of char, but need not be modifiable; the last
     two have automatic storage duration when they occur within the body of a function, and the first of these
     two is modifiable.

14   EXAMPLE 6 Like string literals, const-qualified compound literals can be placed into read-only memory
     and can even be shared. For example,
              (const char []){"abc"} == "abc"
     might yield 1 if the literals’ storage is shared.

15   EXAMPLE 7 Since compound literals are unnamed, a single compound literal cannot specify a circularly
     linked object. For example, there is no way to write a self-referential compound literal that could be used
     as the function argument in place of the named object endless_zeros below:
              struct int_list { int car; struct int_list *cdr; };
              struct int_list endless_zeros = {0, &endless_zeros};
              eval(endless_zeros);

16   EXAMPLE 8        Each compound literal creates only a single object in a given scope:
              struct s { int i; };
              int f (void)
              {
                    struct s *p = 0, *q;
                    int j = 0;
              again:
                        q = p, p = &((struct s){ j++ });
                        if (j < 2) goto again;
                        return p == q && q->i == 1;
              }
     The function f() always returns the value 1.
17   Note that if an iteration statement were used instead of an explicit goto and a labeled statement, the
     lifetime of the unnamed object would be the body of the loop only, and on entry next time around p would
     have an indeterminate value, which would result in undefined behavior.

     Forward references: type names (6.7.6), initialization (6.7.8).




     §6.5.2.5                                            Language                                             77
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                            ©ISO/IEC


    6.5.3 Unary operators
    Syntax
1            unary-expression:
                    postfix-expression
                    ++ unary-expression
                    -- unary-expression
                    unary-operator cast-expression
                    sizeof unary-expression
                    sizeof ( type-name )
             unary-operator: one of
                    & * + - ˜             !
    6.5.3.1 Prefix increment and decrement operators
    Constraints
1   The operand of the prefix increment or decrement operator shall have qualified or
    unqualified real or pointer type and shall be a modifiable lvalue.
    Semantics
2   The value of the operand of the prefix ++ operator is incremented. The result is the new
    value of the operand after incrementation. The expression ++E is equivalent to (E+=1).
    See the discussions of additive operators and compound assignment for information on
    constraints, types, side effects, and conversions and the effects of operations on pointers.
3   The prefix -- operator is analogous to the prefix ++ operator, except that the value of the
    operand is decremented.
    Forward references: additive operators (6.5.6), compound assignment (6.5.16.2).
    6.5.3.2 Address and indirection operators
    Constraints
1   The operand of the unary & operator shall be either a function designator, the result of a
    [] or unary * operator, or an lvalue that designates an object that is not a bit-field and is
    not declared with the register storage-class specifier.
2   The operand of the unary * operator shall have pointer type.
    Semantics
3   The unary & operator returns the address of its operand. If the operand has type ‘‘type’’,
    the result has type ‘‘pointer to type’’. If the operand is the result of a unary * operator,
    neither that operator nor the & operator is evaluated and the result is as if both were
    omitted, except that the constraints on the operators still apply and the result is not an
    lvalue. Similarly, if the operand is the result of a [] operator, neither the & operator nor

    78                                        Language                                  §6.5.3.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    the unary * that is implied by the [] is evaluated and the result is as if the & operator
    were removed and the [] operator were changed to a + operator. Otherwise, the result is
    a pointer to the object or function designated by its operand.
4   The unary * operator denotes indirection. If the operand points to a function, the result is
    a function designator; if it points to an object, the result is an lvalue designating the
    object. If the operand has type ‘‘pointer to type’’, the result has type ‘‘type’’. If an
    invalid value has been assigned to the pointer, the behavior of the unary * operator is
    undefined.83)
    Forward references: storage-class specifiers (6.7.1), structure and union specifiers
    (6.7.2.1).
    6.5.3.3 Unary arithmetic operators
    Constraints
1   The operand of the unary + or - operator shall have arithmetic type; of the ˜ operator,
    integer type; of the ! operator, scalar type.
    Semantics
2   The result of the unary + operator is the value of its (promoted) operand. The integer
    promotions are performed on the operand, and the result has the promoted type.
3   The result of the unary - operator is the negative of its (promoted) operand. The integer
    promotions are performed on the operand, and the result has the promoted type.
4   The result of the ˜ operator is the bitwise complement of its (promoted) operand (that is,
    each bit in the result is set if and only if the corresponding bit in the converted operand is
    not set). The integer promotions are performed on the operand, and the result has the
    promoted type. If the promoted type is an unsigned type, the expression ˜E is equivalent
    to the maximum value representable in that type minus E.
5   The result of the logical negation operator ! is 0 if the value of its operand compares
    unequal to 0, 1 if the value of its operand compares equal to 0. The result has type int.
    The expression !E is equivalent to (0==E).




    83) Thus, &*E is equivalent to E (even if E is a null pointer), and &(E1[E2]) to ((E1)+(E2)). It is
        always true that if E is a function designator or an lvalue that is a valid operand of the unary &
        operator, *&E is a function designator or an lvalue equal to E. If *P is an lvalue and T is the name of
        an object pointer type, *(T)P is an lvalue that has a type compatible with that to which T points.
         Among the invalid values for dereferencing a pointer by the unary * operator are a null pointer, an
         address inappropriately aligned for the type of object pointed to, and the address of an object after the
         end of its lifetime.

    §6.5.3.3                                        Language                                                  79
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                      ©ISO/IEC


    6.5.3.4 The sizeof operator
    Constraints
1   The sizeof operator shall not be applied to an expression that has function type or an
    incomplete type, to the parenthesized name of such a type, or to an expression that
    designates a bit-field member.
    Semantics
2   The sizeof operator yields the size (in bytes) of its operand, which may be an
    expression or the parenthesized name of a type. The size is determined from the type of
    the operand. The result is an integer. If the type of the operand is a variable length array
    type, the operand is evaluated; otherwise, the operand is not evaluated and the result is an
    integer constant.
3   When applied to an operand that has type char, unsigned char, or signed char,
    (or a qualified version thereof) the result is 1. When applied to an operand that has array
    type, the result is the total number of bytes in the array.84) When applied to an operand
    that has structure or union type, the result is the total number of bytes in such an object,
    including internal and trailing padding.
4   The value of the result is implementation-defined, and its type (an unsigned integer type)
    is size_t, defined in <stddef.h> (and other headers).
5   EXAMPLE 1 A principal use of the sizeof operator is in communication with routines such as storage
    allocators and I/O systems. A storage-allocation function might accept a size (in bytes) of an object to
    allocate and return a pointer to void. For example:
            extern void *alloc(size_t);
            double *dp = alloc(sizeof *dp);
    The implementation of the alloc function should ensure that its return value is aligned suitably for
    conversion to a pointer to double.

6   EXAMPLE 2      Another use of the sizeof operator is to compute the number of elements in an array:
            sizeof array / sizeof array[0]

7   EXAMPLE 3      In this example, the size of a variable-length array is computed and returned from a
    function:
            #include <stddef.h>
            size_t fsize3(int n)
            {
                  char b[n+3];                  // variable length array
                  return sizeof b;              // execution time sizeof
            }



    84) When applied to a parameter declared to have array or function type, the sizeof operator yields the
        size of the adjusted (pointer) type (see 6.9.1).

    80                                            Language                                        §6.5.3.4
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


             int main()
             {
                   size_t size;
                   size = fsize3(10); // fsize3 returns 13
                   return 0;
             }

    Forward references: common definitions <stddef.h> (7.17), declarations (6.7),
    structure and union specifiers (6.7.2.1), type names (6.7.6), array declarators (6.7.5.2).
    6.5.4 Cast operators
    Syntax
1            cast-expression:
                    unary-expression
                    ( type-name ) cast-expression
    Constraints
2   Unless the type name specifies a void type, the type name shall specify qualified or
    unqualified scalar type and the operand shall have scalar type.
3   Conversions that involve pointers, other than where permitted by the constraints of
    6.5.16.1, shall be specified by means of an explicit cast.
    Semantics
4   Preceding an expression by a parenthesized type name converts the value of the
    expression to the named type. This construction is called a cast.85) A cast that specifies
    no conversion has no effect on the type or value of an expression.86)
    Forward references: equality operators (6.5.9), function declarators (including
    prototypes) (6.7.5.3), simple assignment (6.5.16.1), type names (6.7.6).




    85) A cast does not yield an lvalue. Thus, a cast to a qualified type has the same effect as a cast to the
        unqualified version of the type.
    86) If the value of the expression is represented with greater precision or range than required by the type
        named by the cast (6.3.1.8), then the cast specifies a conversion even if the type of the expression is
        the same as the named type.

    §6.5.4                                         Language                                                 81
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                          ©ISO/IEC


    6.5.5 Multiplicative operators
    Syntax
1            multiplicative-expression:
                     cast-expression
                     multiplicative-expression * cast-expression
                     multiplicative-expression / cast-expression
                     multiplicative-expression % cast-expression
    Constraints
2   Each of the operands shall have arithmetic type. The operands of the % operator shall
    have integer type.
    Semantics
3   The usual arithmetic conversions are performed on the operands.
4   The result of the binary * operator is the product of the operands.
5   The result of the / operator is the quotient from the division of the first operand by the
    second; the result of the % operator is the remainder. In both operations, if the value of
    the second operand is zero, the behavior is undefined.
6   When integers are divided, the result of the / operator is the algebraic quotient with any
    fractional part discarded.87) If the quotient a/b is representable, the expression
    (a/b)*b + a%b shall equal a.
    6.5.6 Additive operators
    Syntax
1            additive-expression:
                     multiplicative-expression
                     additive-expression + multiplicative-expression
                     additive-expression - multiplicative-expression
    Constraints
2   For addition, either both operands shall have arithmetic type, or one operand shall be a
    pointer to an object type and the other shall have integer type. (Incrementing is
    equivalent to adding 1.)
3   For subtraction, one of the following shall hold:




    87) This is often called ‘‘truncation toward zero’’.

    82                                              Language                           §6.5.6
    ©ISO/IEC                                                           ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    — both operands have arithmetic type;
    — both operands are pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of compatible object
      types; or
    — the left operand is a pointer to an object type and the right operand has integer type.
    (Decrementing is equivalent to subtracting 1.)
    Semantics
4   If both operands have arithmetic type, the usual arithmetic conversions are performed on
    them.
5   The result of the binary + operator is the sum of the operands.
6   The result of the binary - operator is the difference resulting from the subtraction of the
    second operand from the first.
7   For the purposes of these operators, a pointer to a nonarray object behaves the same as a
    pointer to the first element of an array of length one with the type of the object as its
    element type.
8   When an expression that has integer type is added to or subtracted from a pointer, the
    result has the type of the pointer operand. If the pointer operand points to an element of
    an array object, and the array is large enough, the result points to an element offset from
    the original element such that the difference of the subscripts of the resulting and original
    array elements equals the integer expression. In other words, if the expression P points to
    the i-th element of an array object, the expressions (P)+N (equivalently, N+(P)) and
    (P)-N (where N has the value n) point to, respectively, the i+n-th and i−n-th elements of
    the array object, provided they exist. Moreover, if the expression P points to the last
    element of an array object, the expression (P)+1 points one past the last element of the
    array object, and if the expression Q points one past the last element of an array object,
    the expression (Q)-1 points to the last element of the array object. If both the pointer
    operand and the result point to elements of the same array object, or one past the last
    element of the array object, the evaluation shall not produce an overflow; otherwise, the
    behavior is undefined. If the result points one past the last element of the array object, it
    shall not be used as the operand of a unary * operator that is evaluated.
9   When two pointers are subtracted, both shall point to elements of the same array object,
    or one past the last element of the array object; the result is the difference of the
    subscripts of the two array elements. The size of the result is implementation-defined,
    and its type (a signed integer type) is ptrdiff_t defined in the <stddef.h> header.
    If the result is not representable in an object of that type, the behavior is undefined. In
    other words, if the expressions P and Q point to, respectively, the i-th and j-th elements of
    an array object, the expression (P)-(Q) has the value i−j provided the value fits in an
    object of type ptrdiff_t. Moreover, if the expression P points either to an element of

    §6.5.6                                   Language                                           83
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                             ©ISO/IEC


     an array object or one past the last element of an array object, and the expression Q points
     to the last element of the same array object, the expression ((Q)+1)-(P) has the same
     value as ((Q)-(P))+1 and as -((P)-((Q)+1)), and has the value zero if the
     expression P points one past the last element of the array object, even though the
     expression (Q)+1 does not point to an element of the array object.88)
10   EXAMPLE        Pointer arithmetic is well defined with pointers to variable length array types.
              {
                       int n = 4, m = 3;
                       int a[n][m];
                       int (*p)[m] = a; // p == &a[0]
                       p += 1;           // p == &a[1]
                       (*p)[2] = 99;     // a[1][2] == 99
                       n = p - a;        // n == 1
              }
11   If array a in the above example were declared to be an array of known constant size, and pointer p were
     declared to be a pointer to an array of the same known constant size (pointing to a), the results would be
     the same.

     Forward references: array declarators (6.7.5.2), common definitions <stddef.h>
     (7.17).
     6.5.7 Bitwise shift operators
     Syntax
1             shift-expression:
                      additive-expression
                      shift-expression << additive-expression
                      shift-expression >> additive-expression
     Constraints
2    Each of the operands shall have integer type.
     Semantics
3    The integer promotions are performed on each of the operands. The type of the result is
     that of the promoted left operand. If the value of the right operand is negative or is
     greater than or equal to the width of the promoted left operand, the behavior is undefined.

     88) Another way to approach pointer arithmetic is first to convert the pointer(s) to character pointer(s): In
         this scheme the integer expression added to or subtracted from the converted pointer is first multiplied
         by the size of the object originally pointed to, and the resulting pointer is converted back to the
         original type. For pointer subtraction, the result of the difference between the character pointers is
         similarly divided by the size of the object originally pointed to.
          When viewed in this way, an implementation need only provide one extra byte (which may overlap
          another object in the program) just after the end of the object in order to satisfy the ‘‘one past the last
          element’’ requirements.

     84                                               Language                                               §6.5.7
    ©ISO/IEC                                                         ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


4   The result of E1 << E2 is E1 left-shifted E2 bit positions; vacated bits are filled with
    zeros. If E1 has an unsigned type, the value of the result is E1 × 2E2 , reduced modulo
    one more than the maximum value representable in the result type. If E1 has a signed
    type and nonnegative value, and E1 × 2E2 is representable in the result type, then that is
    the resulting value; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.
5   The result of E1 >> E2 is E1 right-shifted E2 bit positions. If E1 has an unsigned type
    or if E1 has a signed type and a nonnegative value, the value of the result is the integral
    part of the quotient of E1 divided by the quantity, 2 raised to the power E2. If E1 has a
    signed type and a negative value, the resulting value is implementation-defined.
    6.5.8 Relational operators
    Syntax
1            relational-expression:
                     shift-expression
                     relational-expression < shift-expression
                     relational-expression > shift-expression
                     relational-expression <= shift-expression
                     relational-expression >= shift-expression
    Constraints
2   One of the following shall hold:
    — both operands have real type;
    — both operands are pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of compatible object
      types; or
    — both operands are pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of compatible
      incomplete types.
    Semantics
3   If both of the operands have arithmetic type, the usual arithmetic conversions are
    performed.
4   For the purposes of these operators, a pointer to a nonarray object behaves the same as a
    pointer to the first element of an array of length one with the type of the object as its
    element type.
5   When two pointers are compared, the result depends on the relative locations in the
    address space of the objects pointed to. If two pointers to object or incomplete types both
    point to the same object, or both point one past the last element of the same array object,
    they compare equal. If the objects pointed to are members of the same aggregate object,
    pointers to structure members declared later compare greater than pointers to members
    declared earlier in the structure, and pointers to array elements with larger subscript

    §6.5.8                                  Language                                        85
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                    ©ISO/IEC


    values compare greater than pointers to elements of the same array with lower subscript
    values. All pointers to members of the same union object compare equal. If the
    expression P points to an element of an array object and the expression Q points to the
    last element of the same array object, the pointer expression Q+1 compares greater than
    P. In all other cases, the behavior is undefined.
6   Each of the operators < (less than), > (greater than), <= (less than or equal to), and >=
    (greater than or equal to) shall yield 1 if the specified relation is true and 0 if it is false.89)
    The result has type int.
    6.5.9 Equality operators
    Syntax
1            equality-expression:
                     relational-expression
                     equality-expression == relational-expression
                     equality-expression != relational-expression
    Constraints
2   One of the following shall hold:
    — both operands have arithmetic type;
    — both operands are pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of compatible types;
    — one operand is a pointer to an object or incomplete type and the other is a pointer to a
      qualified or unqualified version of void; or
    — one operand is a pointer and the other is a null pointer constant.
    Semantics
3   The == (equal to) and != (not equal to) operators are analogous to the relational
    operators except for their lower precedence.90) Each of the operators yields 1 if the
    specified relation is true and 0 if it is false. The result has type int. For any pair of
    operands, exactly one of the relations is true.
4   If both of the operands have arithmetic type, the usual arithmetic conversions are
    performed. Values of complex types are equal if and only if both their real parts are equal
    and also their imaginary parts are equal. Any two values of arithmetic types from
    different type domains are equal if and only if the results of their conversions to the
    (complex) result type determined by the usual arithmetic conversions are equal.


    89) The expression a<b<c is not interpreted as in ordinary mathematics. As the syntax indicates, it
        means (a<b)<c; in other words, ‘‘if a is less than b, compare 1 to c; otherwise, compare 0 to c’’.
    90) Because of the precedences, a<b == c<d is 1 whenever a<b and c<d have the same truth-value.

    86                                           Language                                         §6.5.9
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


5   Otherwise, at least one operand is a pointer. If one operand is a pointer and the other is a
    null pointer constant, the null pointer constant is converted to the type of the pointer. If
    one operand is a pointer to an object or incomplete type and the other is a pointer to a
    qualified or unqualified version of void, the former is converted to the type of the latter.
6   Two pointers compare equal if and only if both are null pointers, both are pointers to the
    same object (including a pointer to an object and a subobject at its beginning) or function,
    both are pointers to one past the last element of the same array object, or one is a pointer
    to one past the end of one array object and the other is a pointer to the start of a different
    array object that happens to immediately follow the first array object in the address
    space.91)
    6.5.10 Bitwise AND operator
    Syntax
1            AND-expression:
                   equality-expression
                   AND-expression & equality-expression
    Constraints
2   Each of the operands shall have integer type.
    Semantics
3   The usual arithmetic conversions are performed on the operands.
4   The result of the binary & operator is the bitwise AND of the operands (that is, each bit in
    the result is set if and only if each of the corresponding bits in the converted operands is
    set).




    91) Two objects may be adjacent in memory because they are adjacent elements of a larger array or
        adjacent members of a structure with no padding between them, or because the implementation chose
        to place them so, even though they are unrelated. If prior invalid pointer operations (such as accesses
        outside array bounds) produced undefined behavior, subsequent comparisons also produce undefined
        behavior.

    §6.5.10                                        Language                                                 87
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                             ©ISO/IEC


    6.5.11 Bitwise exclusive OR operator
    Syntax
1            exclusive-OR-expression:
                     AND-expression
                     exclusive-OR-expression ˆ AND-expression
    Constraints
2   Each of the operands shall have integer type.
    Semantics
3   The usual arithmetic conversions are performed on the operands.
4   The result of the ˆ operator is the bitwise exclusive OR of the operands (that is, each bit
    in the result is set if and only if exactly one of the corresponding bits in the converted
    operands is set).
    6.5.12 Bitwise inclusive OR operator
    Syntax
1            inclusive-OR-expression:
                     exclusive-OR-expression
                     inclusive-OR-expression | exclusive-OR-expression
    Constraints
2   Each of the operands shall have integer type.
    Semantics
3   The usual arithmetic conversions are performed on the operands.
4   The result of the | operator is the bitwise inclusive OR of the operands (that is, each bit in
    the result is set if and only if at least one of the corresponding bits in the converted
    operands is set).




    88                                       Language                                     §6.5.12
    ©ISO/IEC                                                          ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.5.13 Logical AND operator
    Syntax
1            logical-AND-expression:
                     inclusive-OR-expression
                     logical-AND-expression && inclusive-OR-expression
    Constraints
2   Each of the operands shall have scalar type.
    Semantics
3   The && operator shall yield 1 if both of its operands compare unequal to 0; otherwise, it
    yields 0. The result has type int.
4   Unlike the bitwise binary & operator, the && operator guarantees left-to-right evaluation;
    there is a sequence point after the evaluation of the first operand. If the first operand
    compares equal to 0, the second operand is not evaluated.
    6.5.14 Logical OR operator
    Syntax
1            logical-OR-expression:
                     logical-AND-expression
                     logical-OR-expression || logical-AND-expression
    Constraints
2   Each of the operands shall have scalar type.
    Semantics
3   The || operator shall yield 1 if either of its operands compare unequal to 0; otherwise, it
    yields 0. The result has type int.
4   Unlike the bitwise | operator, the || operator guarantees left-to-right evaluation; there is
    a sequence point after the evaluation of the first operand. If the first operand compares
    unequal to 0, the second operand is not evaluated.




    §6.5.14                                 Language                                         89
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                ©ISO/IEC


    6.5.15 Conditional operator
    Syntax
1            conditional-expression:
                    logical-OR-expression
                    logical-OR-expression ? expression : conditional-expression
    Constraints
2   The first operand shall have scalar type.
3   One of the following shall hold for the second and third operands:
    — both operands have arithmetic type;
    — both operands have compatible structure or union types;
    — both operands have void type;
    — both operands are pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of compatible types;
    — one operand is a pointer and the other is a null pointer constant; or
    — one operand is a pointer to an object or incomplete type and the other is a pointer to a
      qualified or unqualified version of void.
    Semantics
4   The first operand is evaluated; there is a sequence point after its evaluation. The second
    operand is evaluated only if the first compares unequal to 0; the third operand is evaluated
    only if the first compares equal to 0; the result is the value of the second or third operand
    (whichever is evaluated), converted to the type described below.92) If an attempt is made
    to modify the result of a conditional operator or to access it after the next sequence point,
    the behavior is undefined.
5   If both the second and third operands have arithmetic type, the result type that would be
    determined by the usual arithmetic conversions, were they applied to those two operands,
    is the type of the result. If both the operands have structure or union type, the result has
    that type. If both operands have void type, the result has void type.
6   If both the second and third operands are pointers or one is a null pointer constant and the
    other is a pointer, the result type is a pointer to a type qualified with all the type qualifiers
    of the types pointed-to by both operands. Furthermore, if both operands are pointers to
    compatible types or to differently qualified versions of compatible types, the result type is
    a pointer to an appropriately qualified version of the composite type; if one operand is a
    null pointer constant, the result has the type of the other operand; otherwise, one operand
    is a pointer to void or a qualified version of void, in which case the result type is a

    92) A conditional expression does not yield an lvalue.

    90                                             Language                                 §6.5.15
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    pointer to an appropriately qualified version of void.
7   EXAMPLE The common type that results when the second and third operands are pointers is determined
    in two independent stages. The appropriate qualifiers, for example, do not depend on whether the two
    pointers have compatible types.
8   Given the declarations
             const void *c_vp;
             void *vp;
             const int *c_ip;
             volatile int *v_ip;
             int *ip;
             const char *c_cp;
    the third column in the following table is the common type that is the result of a conditional expression in
    which the first two columns are the second and third operands (in either order):
             c_vp     c_ip      const void *
             v_ip     0         volatile int *
             c_ip     v_ip      const volatile int *
             vp       c_cp      const void *
             ip       c_ip      const int *
             vp       ip        void *

    6.5.16 Assignment operators
    Syntax
1            assignment-expression:
                    conditional-expression
                    unary-expression assignment-operator assignment-expression
             assignment-operator: one of
                    = *= /= %= +=                       -=     <<=      >>=      &=     ˆ=     |=
    Constraints
2   An assignment operator shall have a modifiable lvalue as its left operand.
    Semantics
3   An assignment operator stores a value in the object designated by the left operand. An
    assignment expression has the value of the left operand after the assignment, but is not an
    lvalue. The type of an assignment expression is the type of the left operand unless the
    left operand has qualified type, in which case it is the unqualified version of the type of
    the left operand. The side effect of updating the stored value of the left operand shall
    occur between the previous and the next sequence point.
4   The order of evaluation of the operands is unspecified. If an attempt is made to modify
    the result of an assignment operator or to access it after the next sequence point, the
    behavior is undefined.


    §6.5.16                                         Language                                                 91
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                         ©ISO/IEC


    6.5.16.1 Simple assignment
    Constraints
1   One of the following shall hold:93)
    — the left operand has qualified or unqualified arithmetic type and the right has
      arithmetic type;
    — the left operand has a qualified or unqualified version of a structure or union type
      compatible with the type of the right;
    — both operands are pointers to qualified or unqualified versions of compatible types,
      and the type pointed to by the left has all the qualifiers of the type pointed to by the
      right;
    — one operand is a pointer to an object or incomplete type and the other is a pointer to a
      qualified or unqualified version of void, and the type pointed to by the left has all
      the qualifiers of the type pointed to by the right; or
    — the left operand is a pointer and the right is a null pointer constant.
    — the left operand has type _Bool and the right is a pointer.
    Semantics
2   In simple assignment (=), the value of the right operand is converted to the type of the
    assignment expression and replaces the value stored in the object designated by the left
    operand.
3   If the value being stored in an object is read from another object that overlaps in any way
    the storage of the first object, then the overlap shall be exact and the two objects shall
    have qualified or unqualified versions of a compatible type; otherwise, the behavior is
    undefined.
4   EXAMPLE 1       In the program fragment
            int f(void);
            char c;
            /* ... */
            if ((c = f()) == -1)
                    /* ... */
    the int value returned by the function may be truncated when stored in the char, and then converted back
    to int width prior to the comparison. In an implementation in which ‘‘plain’’ char has the same range of
    values as unsigned char (and char is narrower than int), the result of the conversion cannot be
    negative, so the operands of the comparison can never compare equal. Therefore, for full portability, the



    93) The asymmetric appearance of these constraints with respect to type qualifiers is due to the conversion
        (specified in 6.3.2.1) that changes lvalues to ‘‘the value of the expression’’ which removes any type
        qualifiers from the type category of the expression.

    92                                             Language                                        §6.5.16.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    variable c should be declared as int.

5   EXAMPLE 2       In the fragment:
            char c;
            int i;
            long l;
            l = (c = i);
    the value of i is converted to the type of the assignment expression c = i, that is, char type. The value
    of the expression enclosed in parentheses is then converted to the type of the outer assignment expression,
    that is, long int type.

6   EXAMPLE 3       Consider the fragment:
            const char **cpp;
            char *p;
            const char c = 'A';
            cpp = &p;                  // constraint violation
            *cpp = &c;                 // valid
            *p = 0;                    // valid
    The first assignment is unsafe because it would allow the following valid code to attempt to change the
    value of the const object c.

    6.5.16.2 Compound assignment
    Constraints
1   For the operators += and -= only, either the left operand shall be a pointer to an object
    type and the right shall have integer type, or the left operand shall have qualified or
    unqualified arithmetic type and the right shall have arithmetic type.
2   For the other operators, each operand shall have arithmetic type consistent with those
    allowed by the corresponding binary operator.
    Semantics
3   A compound assignment of the form E1 op = E2 differs from the simple assignment
    expression E1 = E1 op (E2) only in that the lvalue E1 is evaluated only once.




    §6.5.16.2                                        Language                                               93
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


    6.5.17 Comma operator
    Syntax
1            expression:
                    assignment-expression
                    expression , assignment-expression
    Semantics
2   The left operand of a comma operator is evaluated as a void expression; there is a
    sequence point after its evaluation. Then the right operand is evaluated; the result has its
    type and value.94) If an attempt is made to modify the result of a comma operator or to
    access it after the next sequence point, the behavior is undefined.
3   EXAMPLE As indicated by the syntax, the comma operator (as described in this subclause) cannot
    appear in contexts where a comma is used to separate items in a list (such as arguments to functions or lists
    of initializers). On the other hand, it can be used within a parenthesized expression or within the second
    expression of a conditional operator in such contexts. In the function call
             f(a, (t=3, t+2), c)
    the function has three arguments, the second of which has the value 5.

    Forward references: initialization (6.7.8).




    94) A comma operator does not yield an lvalue.

    94                                              Language                                           §6.5.17
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.6 Constant expressions
    Syntax
1            constant-expression:
                    conditional-expression
    Description
2   A constant expression can be evaluated during translation rather than runtime, and
    accordingly may be used in any place that a constant may be.
    Constraints
3   Constant expressions shall not contain assignment, increment, decrement, function-call,
    or comma operators, except when they are contained within a subexpression that is not
    evaluated.95)
4   Each constant expression shall evaluate to a constant that is in the range of representable
    values for its type.
    Semantics
5   An expression that evaluates to a constant is required in several contexts. If a floating
    expression is evaluated in the translation environment, the arithmetic precision and range
    shall be at least as great as if the expression were being evaluated in the execution
    environment.
6   An integer constant expression96) shall have integer type and shall only have operands
    that are integer constants, enumeration constants, character constants, sizeof
    expressions whose results are integer constants, and floating constants that are the
    immediate operands of casts. Cast operators in an integer constant expression shall only
    convert arithmetic types to integer types, except as part of an operand to the sizeof
    operator.
7   More latitude is permitted for constant expressions in initializers. Such a constant
    expression shall be, or evaluate to, one of the following:
    — an arithmetic constant expression,
    — a null pointer constant,




    95) The operand of a sizeof operator is usually not evaluated (6.5.3.4).
    96) An integer constant expression is used to specify the size of a bit-field member of a structure, the
        value of an enumeration constant, the size of an array, or the value of a case constant. Further
        constraints that apply to the integer constant expressions used in conditional-inclusion preprocessing
        directives are discussed in 6.10.1.

    §6.6                                           Language                                                95
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                            ©ISO/IEC


     — an address constant, or
     — an address constant for an object type plus or minus an integer constant expression.
8    An arithmetic constant expression shall have arithmetic type and shall only have
     operands that are integer constants, floating constants, enumeration constants, character
     constants, and sizeof expressions. Cast operators in an arithmetic constant expression
     shall only convert arithmetic types to arithmetic types, except as part of an operand to a
     sizeof operator whose result is an integer constant.
9    An address constant is a null pointer, a pointer to an lvalue designating an object of static
     storage duration, or a pointer to a function designator; it shall be created explicitly using
     the unary & operator or an integer constant cast to pointer type, or implicitly by the use of
     an expression of array or function type. The array-subscript [] and member-access .
     and -> operators, the address & and indirection * unary operators, and pointer casts may
     be used in the creation of an address constant, but the value of an object shall not be
     accessed by use of these operators.
10   An implementation may accept other forms of constant expressions.
11   The semantic rules for the evaluation of a constant expression are the same as for
     nonconstant expressions.97)
     Forward references: array declarators (6.7.5.2), initialization (6.7.8).




     97) Thus, in the following initialization,
                   static int i = 2 || 1 / 0;
          the expression is a valid integer constant expression with value one.

     96                                              Language                                §6.6
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.7 Declarations
    Syntax
1            declaration:
                    declaration-specifiers init-declarator-listopt ;
             declaration-specifiers:
                    storage-class-specifier declaration-specifiersopt
                    type-specifier declaration-specifiersopt
                    type-qualifier declaration-specifiersopt
                    function-specifier declaration-specifiersopt
             init-declarator-list:
                     init-declarator
                     init-declarator-list , init-declarator
             init-declarator:
                     declarator
                     declarator = initializer
    Constraints
2   A declaration shall declare at least a declarator (other than the parameters of a function or
    the members of a structure or union), a tag, or the members of an enumeration.
3   If an identifier has no linkage, there shall be no more than one declaration of the identifier
    (in a declarator or type specifier) with the same scope and in the same name space, except
    for tags as specified in 6.7.2.3.
4   All declarations in the same scope that refer to the same object or function shall specify
    compatible types.
    Semantics
5   A declaration specifies the interpretation and attributes of a set of identifiers. A definition
    of an identifier is a declaration for that identifier that:
    — for an object, causes storage to be reserved for that object;
    — for a function, includes the function body;98)
    — for an enumeration constant or typedef name, is the (only) declaration of the
      identifier.
6   The declaration specifiers consist of a sequence of specifiers that indicate the linkage,
    storage duration, and part of the type of the entities that the declarators denote. The init-
    declarator-list is a comma-separated sequence of declarators, each of which may have

    98) Function definitions have a different syntax, described in 6.9.1.

    §6.7                                            Language                                    97
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


    additional type information, or an initializer, or both. The declarators contain the
    identifiers (if any) being declared.
7   If an identifier for an object is declared with no linkage, the type for the object shall be
    complete by the end of its declarator, or by the end of its init-declarator if it has an
    initializer; in the case of function arguments (including in prototypes), it is the adjusted
    type (see 6.7.5.3) that is required to be complete.
    Forward references: declarators (6.7.5), enumeration specifiers (6.7.2.2), initialization
    (6.7.8).
    6.7.1 Storage-class specifiers
    Syntax
1            storage-class-specifier:
                    typedef
                    extern
                    static
                    auto
                    register
    Constraints
2   At most, one storage-class specifier may be given in the declaration specifiers in a
    declaration.99)
    Semantics
3   The typedef specifier is called a ‘‘storage-class specifier’’ for syntactic convenience
    only; it is discussed in 6.7.7. The meanings of the various linkages and storage durations
    were discussed in 6.2.2 and 6.2.4.
4   A declaration of an identifier for an object with storage-class specifier register
    suggests that access to the object be as fast as possible. The extent to which such
    suggestions are effective is implementation-defined.100)
5   The declaration of an identifier for a function that has block scope shall have no explicit
    storage-class specifier other than extern.



    99) See ‘‘future language directions’’ (6.11.5).
    100) The implementation may treat any register declaration simply as an auto declaration. However,
         whether or not addressable storage is actually used, the address of any part of an object declared with
         storage-class specifier register cannot be computed, either explicitly (by use of the unary &
         operator as discussed in 6.5.3.2) or implicitly (by converting an array name to a pointer as discussed in
         6.3.2.1). Thus, the only operator that can be applied to an array declared with storage-class specifier
         register is sizeof.

    98                                                 Language                                           §6.7.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                           ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


6   If an aggregate or union object is declared with a storage-class specifier other than
    typedef, the properties resulting from the storage-class specifier, except with respect to
    linkage, also apply to the members of the object, and so on recursively for any aggregate
    or union member objects.
    Forward references: type definitions (6.7.7).
    6.7.2 Type specifiers
    Syntax
1            type-specifier:
                    void
                    char
                    short
                    int
                    long
                    float
                    double
                    signed
                    unsigned
                    _Bool
                    _Complex
                    _Imaginary
                    struct-or-union-specifier
                    enum-specifier
                    typedef-name
    Constraints
2   At least one type specifier shall be given in the declaration specifiers in each declaration,
    and in the specifier-qualifier list in each struct declaration and type name. Each list of
    type specifiers shall be one of the following sets (delimited by commas, when there is
    more than one set on a line); the type specifiers may occur in any order, possibly
    intermixed with the other declaration specifiers.
    — void
    — char
    — signed char
    — unsigned char
    — short, signed short, short int, or signed short int
    — unsigned short, or unsigned short int


    §6.7.2                                      Language                                      99
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                    ©ISO/IEC


    — int, signed, or signed int
    — unsigned, or unsigned int
    — long, signed long, long int, or signed long int
    — unsigned long, or unsigned long int
    — long long, signed long long, long long int, or
      signed long long int
    — unsigned long long, or unsigned long long int
    — float
    — double
    — long double
    — _Bool
    — float _Complex
    — double _Complex
    — long double _Complex
    — float _Imaginary
    — double _Imaginary
    — long double _Imaginary
    — struct or union specifier
    — enum specifier
    — typedef name
3   The type specifiers _Complex and _Imaginary shall not be used if the
    implementation does not provide those types.101)
    Semantics
4   Specifiers for structures, unions, and enumerations are discussed in 6.7.2.1 through
    6.7.2.3. Declarations of typedef names are discussed in 6.7.7. The characteristics of the
    other types are discussed in 6.2.5.
5   Each of the comma-separated sets designates the same type, except that for bit-fields, it is
    implementation-defined whether the specifier int designates the same type as signed
    int or the same type as unsigned int.


    101) Implementations are not required to provide imaginary types. Freestanding implementations are not
         required to provide complex types.

    100                                          Language                                         §6.7.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                             ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    Forward references: enumeration specifiers (6.7.2.2), structure and union specifiers
    (6.7.2.1), tags (6.7.2.3), type definitions (6.7.7).
    6.7.2.1 Structure and union specifiers
    Syntax
1            struct-or-union-specifier:
                     struct-or-union identifieropt { struct-declaration-list }
                     struct-or-union identifier
             struct-or-union:
                     struct
                     union
             struct-declaration-list:
                     struct-declaration
                     struct-declaration-list struct-declaration
             struct-declaration:
                     specifier-qualifier-list struct-declarator-list ;
             specifier-qualifier-list:
                     type-specifier specifier-qualifier-listopt
                     type-qualifier specifier-qualifier-listopt
             struct-declarator-list:
                     struct-declarator
                     struct-declarator-list , struct-declarator
             struct-declarator:
                     declarator
                     declaratoropt : constant-expression
    Constraints
2   A structure or union shall not contain a member with incomplete or function type (hence,
    a structure shall not contain an instance of itself, but may contain a pointer to an instance
    of itself), except that the last member of a structure with more than one named member
    may have incomplete array type; such a structure (and any union containing, possibly
    recursively, a member that is such a structure) shall not be a member of a structure or an
    element of an array.
3   The expression that specifies the width of a bit-field shall be an integer constant
    expression that has nonnegative value that shall not exceed the number of bits in an object
    of the type that is specified if the colon and expression are omitted. If the value is zero,
    the declaration shall have no declarator.


    §6.7.2.1                                   Language                                      101
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


4    A bit-field shall have a type that is a qualified or unqualified version of _Bool, signed
     int, unsigned int, or some other implementation-defined type.
     Semantics
5    As discussed in 6.2.5, a structure is a type consisting of a sequence of members, whose
     storage is allocated in an ordered sequence, and a union is a type consisting of a sequence
     of members whose storage overlap.
6    Structure and union specifiers have the same form.
7    The presence of a struct-declaration-list in a struct-or-union-specifier declares a new type,
     within a translation unit. The struct-declaration-list is a sequence of declarations for the
     members of the structure or union. If the struct-declaration-list contains no named
     members, the behavior is undefined. The type is incomplete until after the } that
     terminates the list.
8    A member of a structure or union may have any object type other than a variably
     modified type.102) In addition, a member may be declared to consist of a specified
     number of bits (including a sign bit, if any). Such a member is called a bit-field;103) its
     width is preceded by a colon.
9    A bit-field is interpreted as a signed or unsigned integer type consisting of the specified
     number of bits.104) If the value 0 or 1 is stored into a nonzero-width bit-field of type
     _Bool, the value of the bit-field shall compare equal to the value stored.
10   An implementation may allocate any addressable storage unit large enough to hold a bit-
     field. If enough space remains, a bit-field that immediately follows another bit-field in a
     structure shall be packed into adjacent bits of the same unit. If insufficient space remains,
     whether a bit-field that does not fit is put into the next unit or overlaps adjacent units is
     implementation-defined. The order of allocation of bit-fields within a unit (high-order to
     low-order or low-order to high-order) is implementation-defined. The alignment of the
     addressable storage unit is unspecified.
11   A bit-field declaration with no declarator, but only a colon and a width, indicates an
     unnamed bit-field.105) As a special case, a bit-field structure member with a width of 0
     indicates that no further bit-field is to be packed into the unit in which the previous bit-

     102) A structure or union can not contain a member with a variably modified type because member names
          are not ordinary identifiers as defined in 6.2.3.
     103) The unary & (address-of) operator cannot be applied to a bit-field object; thus, there are no pointers to
          or arrays of bit-field objects.
     104) As specified in 6.7.2 above, if the actual type specifier used is int or a typedef-name defined as int,
          then it is implementation-defined whether the bit-field is signed or unsigned.
     105) An unnamed bit-field structure member is useful for padding to conform to externally imposed
          layouts.

     102                                             Language                                            §6.7.2.1
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


     field, if any, was placed.
12   Each non-bit-field member of a structure or union object is aligned in an implementation-
     defined manner appropriate to its type.
13   Within a structure object, the non-bit-field members and the units in which bit-fields
     reside have addresses that increase in the order in which they are declared. A pointer to a
     structure object, suitably converted, points to its initial member (or if that member is a
     bit-field, then to the unit in which it resides), and vice versa. There may be unnamed
     padding within a structure object, but not at its beginning.
14   The size of a union is sufficient to contain the largest of its members. The value of at
     most one of the members can be stored in a union object at any time. A pointer to a
     union object, suitably converted, points to each of its members (or if a member is a bit-
     field, then to the unit in which it resides), and vice versa.
15   There may be unnamed padding at the end of a structure or union.
16   As a special case, the last element of a structure with more than one named member may
     have an incomplete array type; this is called a flexible array member. With two
     exceptions, the flexible array member is ignored. First, the size of the structure shall be
     equal to the offset of the last element of an otherwise identical structure that replaces the
     flexible array member with an array of unspecified length.106) Second, when a . (or ->)
     operator has a left operand that is (a pointer to) a structure with a flexible array member
     and the right operand names that member, it behaves as if that member were replaced
     with the longest array (with the same element type) that would not make the structure
     larger than the object being accessed; the offset of the array shall remain that of the
     flexible array member, even if this would differ from that of the replacement array. If this
     array would have no elements, it behaves as if it had one element but the behavior is
     undefined if any attempt is made to access that element or to generate a pointer one past
     it.
17   EXAMPLE        Assuming that all array members are aligned the same, after the declarations:
              struct s { int n; double d[]; };
              struct ss { int n; double d[1]; };
     the three expressions:
              sizeof (struct s)
              offsetof(struct s, d)
              offsetof(struct ss, d)
     have the same value. The structure struct s has a flexible array member d.




     106) The length is unspecified to allow for the fact that implementations may give array members different
          alignments according to their lengths.

     §6.7.2.1                                        Language                                             103
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                  ©ISO/IEC


18   If sizeof (double) is 8, then after the following code is executed:
              struct s *s1;
              struct s *s2;
              s1 = malloc(sizeof (struct s) + 64);
              s2 = malloc(sizeof (struct s) + 46);
     and assuming that the calls to malloc succeed, the objects pointed to by s1 and s2 behave as if the
     identifiers had been declared as:
              struct { int n; double d[8]; } *s1;
              struct { int n; double d[5]; } *s2;
19   Following the further successful assignments:
              s1 = malloc(sizeof (struct s) + 10);
              s2 = malloc(sizeof (struct s) + 6);
     they then behave as if the declarations were:
              struct { int n; double d[1]; } *s1, *s2;
     and:
              double *dp;
              dp = &(s1->d[0]); // valid
              *dp = 42;         // valid
              dp = &(s2->d[0]); // valid
              *dp = 42;         // undefined behavior
20   The assignment:
              *s1 = *s2;
     only copies the member n and not any of the array elements. Similarly:
              struct s t1 = { 0 };          // valid
              struct s t2 = { 2 };          // valid
              struct ss tt = { 1, { 4.2 }}; // valid
              struct s t3 = { 1, { 4.2 }}; // invalid: there is nothing for the 4.2 to initialize
              t1.n = 4;                                  // valid
              t1.d[0] = 4.2;                             // undefined behavior

     Forward references: tags (6.7.2.3).
     6.7.2.2 Enumeration specifiers
     Syntax
1             enum-specifier:
                    enum identifieropt { enumerator-list }
                    enum identifieropt { enumerator-list , }
                    enum identifier
              enumerator-list:
                    enumerator
                    enumerator-list , enumerator

     104                                             Language                                  §6.7.2.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                   ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


            enumerator:
                  enumeration-constant
                  enumeration-constant = constant-expression
    Constraints
2   The expression that defines the value of an enumeration constant shall be an integer
    constant expression that has a value representable as an int.
    Semantics
3   The identifiers in an enumerator list are declared as constants that have type int and
    may appear wherever such are permitted.107) An enumerator with = defines its
    enumeration constant as the value of the constant expression. If the first enumerator has
    no =, the value of its enumeration constant is 0. Each subsequent enumerator with no =
    defines its enumeration constant as the value of the constant expression obtained by
    adding 1 to the value of the previous enumeration constant. (The use of enumerators with
    = may produce enumeration constants with values that duplicate other values in the same
    enumeration.) The enumerators of an enumeration are also known as its members.
4   Each enumerated type shall be compatible with char, a signed integer type, or an
    unsigned integer type. The choice of type is implementation-defined,108) but shall be
    capable of representing the values of all the members of the enumeration. The
    enumerated type is incomplete until after the } that terminates the list of enumerator
    declarations.
5   EXAMPLE       The following fragment:
            enum hue { chartreuse, burgundy, claret=20, winedark };
            enum hue col, *cp;
            col = claret;
            cp = &col;
            if (*cp != burgundy)
                  /* ... */
    makes hue the tag of an enumeration, and then declares col as an object that has that type and cp as a
    pointer to an object that has that type. The enumerated values are in the set { 0, 1, 20, 21 }.

    Forward references: tags (6.7.2.3).




    107) Thus, the identifiers of enumeration constants declared in the same scope shall all be distinct from
         each other and from other identifiers declared in ordinary declarators.
    108) An implementation may delay the choice of which integer type until all enumeration constants have
         been seen.

    §6.7.2.2                                      Language                                              105
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                              ©ISO/IEC


    6.7.2.3 Tags
    Constraints
1   A specific type shall have its content defined at most once.
2   A type specifier of the form
             enum identifier
    without an enumerator list shall only appear after the type it specifies is completed.
    Semantics
3   All declarations of structure, union, or enumerated types that have the same scope and
    use the same tag declare the same type. The type is incomplete109) until the closing brace
    of the list defining the content, and complete thereafter.
4   Two declarations of structure, union, or enumerated types which are in different scopes or
    use different tags declare distinct types. Each declaration of a structure, union, or
    enumerated type which does not include a tag declares a distinct type.
5   A type specifier of the form
             struct-or-union identifieropt { struct-declaration-list }
    or
             enum identifier { enumerator-list }
    or
             enum identifier { enumerator-list , }
    declares a structure, union, or enumerated type. The list defines the structure content,
    union content, or enumeration content. If an identifier is provided,110) the type specifier
    also declares the identifier to be the tag of that type.
6   A declaration of the form
             struct-or-union identifier ;
    specifies a structure or union type and declares the identifier as a tag of that type.111)



    109) An incomplete type may only by used when the size of an object of that type is not needed. It is not
         needed, for example, when a typedef name is declared to be a specifier for a structure or union, or
         when a pointer to or a function returning a structure or union is being declared. (See incomplete types
         in 6.2.5.) The specification has to be complete before such a function is called or defined.
    110) If there is no identifier, the type can, within the translation unit, only be referred to by the declaration
         of which it is a part. Of course, when the declaration is of a typedef name, subsequent declarations
         can make use of that typedef name to declare objects having the specified structure, union, or
         enumerated type.
    111) A similar construction with enum does not exist.

    106                                               Language                                            §6.7.2.3
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


7    If a type specifier of the form
              struct-or-union identifier
     occurs other than as part of one of the above forms, and no other declaration of the
     identifier as a tag is visible, then it declares an incomplete structure or union type, and
     declares the identifier as the tag of that type.111)
8    If a type specifier of the form
              struct-or-union identifier
     or
              enum identifier
     occurs other than as part of one of the above forms, and a declaration of the identifier as a
     tag is visible, then it specifies the same type as that other declaration, and does not
     redeclare the tag.
9    EXAMPLE 1       This mechanism allows declaration of a self-referential structure.
              struct tnode {
                    int count;
                    struct tnode *left, *right;
              };
     specifies a structure that contains an integer and two pointers to objects of the same type. Once this
     declaration has been given, the declaration
              struct tnode s, *sp;
     declares s to be an object of the given type and sp to be a pointer to an object of the given type. With
     these declarations, the expression sp->left refers to the left struct tnode pointer of the object to
     which sp points; the expression s.right->count designates the count member of the right struct
     tnode pointed to from s.
10   The following alternative formulation uses the typedef mechanism:
              typedef struct tnode TNODE;
              struct tnode {
                    int count;
                    TNODE *left, *right;
              };
              TNODE s, *sp;

11   EXAMPLE 2 To illustrate the use of prior declaration of a tag to specify a pair of mutually referential
     structures, the declarations
              struct s1 { struct s2 *s2p; /* ... */ }; // D1
              struct s2 { struct s1 *s1p; /* ... */ }; // D2
     specify a pair of structures that contain pointers to each other. Note, however, that if s2 were already
     declared as a tag in an enclosing scope, the declaration D1 would refer to it, not to the tag s2 declared in
     D2. To eliminate this context sensitivity, the declaration
              struct s2;
     may be inserted ahead of D1. This declares a new tag s2 in the inner scope; the declaration D2 then

     §6.7.2.3                                        Language                                               107
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


    completes the specification of the new type.

    Forward references: declarators (6.7.5), array declarators (6.7.5.2), type definitions
    (6.7.7).
    6.7.3 Type qualifiers
    Syntax
1            type-qualifier:
                    const
                    restrict
                    volatile
    Constraints
2   Types other than pointer types derived from object or incomplete types shall not be
    restrict-qualified.
    Semantics
3   The properties associated with qualified types are meaningful only for expressions that
    are lvalues.112)
4   If the same qualifier appears more than once in the same specifier-qualifier-list, either
    directly or via one or more typedefs, the behavior is the same as if it appeared only
    once.
5   If an attempt is made to modify an object defined with a const-qualified type through use
    of an lvalue with non-const-qualified type, the behavior is undefined. If an attempt is
    made to refer to an object defined with a volatile-qualified type through use of an lvalue
    with non-volatile-qualified type, the behavior is undefined.113)
6   An object that has volatile-qualified type may be modified in ways unknown to the
    implementation or have other unknown side effects. Therefore any expression referring
    to such an object shall be evaluated strictly according to the rules of the abstract machine,
    as described in 5.1.2.3. Furthermore, at every sequence point the value last stored in the
    object shall agree with that prescribed by the abstract machine, except as modified by the




    112) The implementation may place a const object that is not volatile in a read-only region of
         storage. Moreover, the implementation need not allocate storage for such an object if its address is
         never used.
    113) This applies to those objects that behave as if they were defined with qualified types, even if they are
         never actually defined as objects in the program (such as an object at a memory-mapped input/output
         address).

    108                                             Language                                             §6.7.3
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


     unknown factors mentioned previously.114) What constitutes an access to an object that
     has volatile-qualified type is implementation-defined.
7    An object that is accessed through a restrict-qualified pointer has a special association
     with that pointer. This association, defined in 6.7.3.1 below, requires that all accesses to
     that object use, directly or indirectly, the value of that particular pointer.115) The intended
     use of the restrict qualifier (like the register storage class) is to promote
     optimization, and deleting all instances of the qualifier from all preprocessing translation
     units composing a conforming program does not change its meaning (i.e., observable
     behavior).
8    If the specification of an array type includes any type qualifiers, the element type is so-
     qualified, not the array type. If the specification of a function type includes any type
     qualifiers, the behavior is undefined.116)
9    For two qualified types to be compatible, both shall have the identically qualified version
     of a compatible type; the order of type qualifiers within a list of specifiers or qualifiers
     does not affect the specified type.
10   EXAMPLE 1      An object declared
              extern const volatile int real_time_clock;
     may be modifiable by hardware, but cannot be assigned to, incremented, or decremented.

11   EXAMPLE 2 The following declarations and expressions illustrate the behavior when type qualifiers
     modify an aggregate type:
              const struct s { int mem; } cs = { 1 };
              struct s ncs; // the object ncs is modifiable
              typedef int A[2][3];
              const A a = {{4, 5, 6}, {7, 8, 9}}; // array of array of const int
              int *pi;
              const int *pci;
              ncs = cs;      // valid
              cs = ncs;      // violates modifiable lvalue constraint for =
              pi = &ncs.mem; // valid
              pi = &cs.mem; // violates type constraints for =
              pci = &cs.mem; // valid
              pi = a[0];     // invalid: a[0] has type ‘‘const int *’’



     114) A volatile declaration may be used to describe an object corresponding to a memory-mapped
          input/output port or an object accessed by an asynchronously interrupting function. Actions on
          objects so declared shall not be ‘‘optimized out’’ by an implementation or reordered except as
          permitted by the rules for evaluating expressions.
     115) For example, a statement that assigns a value returned by malloc to a single pointer establishes this
          association between the allocated object and the pointer.
     116) Both of these can occur through the use of typedefs.

     §6.7.3                                         Language                                              109
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                       ©ISO/IEC


    6.7.3.1 Formal definition of restrict
1   Let D be a declaration of an ordinary identifier that provides a means of designating an
    object P as a restrict-qualified pointer to type T.
2   If D appears inside a block and does not have storage class extern, let B denote the
    block. If D appears in the list of parameter declarations of a function definition, let B
    denote the associated block. Otherwise, let B denote the block of main (or the block of
    whatever function is called at program startup in a freestanding environment).
3   In what follows, a pointer expression E is said to be based on object P if (at some
    sequence point in the execution of B prior to the evaluation of E) modifying P to point to
    a copy of the array object into which it formerly pointed would change the value of E.117)
    Note that ‘‘based’’ is defined only for expressions with pointer types.
4   During each execution of B, let L be any lvalue that has &L based on P. If L is used to
    access the value of the object X that it designates, and X is also modified (by any means),
    then the following requirements apply: T shall not be const-qualified. Every other lvalue
    used to access the value of X shall also have its address based on P. Every access that
    modifies X shall be considered also to modify P, for the purposes of this subclause. If P
    is assigned the value of a pointer expression E that is based on another restricted pointer
    object P2, associated with block B2, then either the execution of B2 shall begin before
    the execution of B, or the execution of B2 shall end prior to the assignment. If these
    requirements are not met, then the behavior is undefined.
5   Here an execution of B means that portion of the execution of the program that would
    correspond to the lifetime of an object with scalar type and automatic storage duration
    associated with B.
6   A translator is free to ignore any or all aliasing implications of uses of restrict.
7   EXAMPLE 1      The file scope declarations
            int * restrict a;
            int * restrict b;
            extern int c[];
    assert that if an object is accessed using one of a, b, or c, and that object is modified anywhere in the
    program, then it is never accessed using either of the other two.




    117) In other words, E depends on the value of P itself rather than on the value of an object referenced
         indirectly through P. For example, if identifier p has type (int **restrict), then the pointer
         expressions p and p+1 are based on the restricted pointer object designated by p, but the pointer
         expressions *p and p[1] are not.

    110                                           Language                                         §6.7.3.1
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


8    EXAMPLE 2       The function parameter declarations in the following example
              void f(int n, int * restrict p, int * restrict q)
              {
                    while (n-- > 0)
                          *p++ = *q++;
              }
     assert that, during each execution of the function, if an object is accessed through one of the pointer
     parameters, then it is not also accessed through the other.
9    The benefit of the restrict qualifiers is that they enable a translator to make an effective dependence
     analysis of function f without examining any of the calls of f in the program. The cost is that the
     programmer has to examine all of those calls to ensure that none give undefined behavior. For example, the
     second call of f in g has undefined behavior because each of d[1] through d[49] is accessed through
     both p and q.
              void g(void)
              {
                    extern int d[100];
                    f(50, d + 50, d); // valid
                    f(50, d + 1, d); // undefined behavior
              }

10   EXAMPLE 3       The function parameter declarations
              void h(int n, int * restrict p, int * restrict q, int * restrict r)
              {
                    int i;
                    for (i = 0; i < n; i++)
                           p[i] = q[i] + r[i];
              }
     illustrate how an unmodified object can be aliased through two restricted pointers. In particular, if a and b
     are disjoint arrays, a call of the form h(100, a, b, b) has defined behavior, because array b is not
     modified within function h.

11   EXAMPLE 4 The rule limiting assignments between restricted pointers does not distinguish between a
     function call and an equivalent nested block. With one exception, only ‘‘outer-to-inner’’ assignments
     between restricted pointers declared in nested blocks have defined behavior.
              {
                       int * restrict p1;
                       int * restrict q1;
                       p1 = q1; // undefined behavior
                       {
                             int * restrict p2 = p1; // valid
                             int * restrict q2 = q1; // valid
                             p1 = q2;                 // undefined behavior
                             p2 = q2;                 // undefined behavior
                       }
              }




     §6.7.3.1                                        Language                                                111
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                            ©ISO/IEC


12   The one exception allows the value of a restricted pointer to be carried out of the block in which it (or, more
     precisely, the ordinary identifier used to designate it) is declared when that block finishes execution. For
     example, this permits new_vector to return a vector.
              typedef struct { int n; float * restrict v; } vector;
              vector new_vector(int n)
              {
                    vector t;
                    t.n = n;
                    t.v = malloc(n * sizeof (float));
                    return t;
              }

     6.7.4 Function specifiers
     Syntax
1             function-specifier:
                     inline
     Constraints
2    Function specifiers shall be used only in the declaration of an identifier for a function.
3    An inline definition of a function with external linkage shall not contain a definition of a
     modifiable object with static storage duration, and shall not contain a reference to an
     identifier with internal linkage.
4    In a hosted environment, the inline function specifier shall not appear in a declaration
     of main.
     Semantics
5    A function declared with an inline function specifier is an inline function. The
     function specifier may appear more than once; the behavior is the same as if it appeared
     only once. Making a function an inline function suggests that calls to the function be as
     fast as possible.118) The extent to which such suggestions are effective is
     implementation-defined.119)
6    Any function with internal linkage can be an inline function. For a function with external
     linkage, the following restrictions apply: If a function is declared with an inline

     118) By using, for example, an alternative to the usual function call mechanism, such as ‘‘inline
          substitution’’. Inline substitution is not textual substitution, nor does it create a new function.
          Therefore, for example, the expansion of a macro used within the body of the function uses the
          definition it had at the point the function body appears, and not where the function is called; and
          identifiers refer to the declarations in scope where the body occurs. Likewise, the function has a
          single address, regardless of the number of inline definitions that occur in addition to the external
          definition.
     119) For example, an implementation might never perform inline substitution, or might only perform inline
          substitutions to calls in the scope of an inline declaration.

     112                                              Language                                              §6.7.4
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                        ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    function specifier, then it shall also be defined in the same translation unit. If all of the
    file scope declarations for a function in a translation unit include the inline function
    specifier without extern, then the definition in that translation unit is an inline
    definition. An inline definition does not provide an external definition for the function,
    and does not forbid an external definition in another translation unit. An inline definition
    provides an alternative to an external definition, which a translator may use to implement
    any call to the function in the same translation unit. It is unspecified whether a call to the
    function uses the inline definition or the external definition.120)
7   EXAMPLE The declaration of an inline function with external linkage can result in either an external
    definition, or a definition available for use only within the translation unit. A file scope declaration with
    extern creates an external definition. The following example shows an entire translation unit.
             inline double fahr(double t)
             {
                   return (9.0 * t) / 5.0 + 32.0;
             }
             inline double cels(double t)
             {
                   return (5.0 * (t - 32.0)) / 9.0;
             }
             extern double fahr(double);                   // creates an external definition
             double convert(int is_fahr, double temp)
             {
                   /* A translator may perform inline substitutions */
                   return is_fahr ? cels(temp) : fahr(temp);
             }
8   Note that the definition of fahr is an external definition because fahr is also declared with extern, but
    the definition of cels is an inline definition. Because cels has external linkage and is referenced, an
    external definition has to appear in another translation unit (see 6.9); the inline definition and the external
    definition are distinct and either may be used for the call.

    Forward references: function definitions (6.9.1).




    120) Since an inline definition is distinct from the corresponding external definition and from any other
         corresponding inline definitions in other translation units, all corresponding objects with static storage
         duration are also distinct in each of the definitions.

    §6.7.4                                           Language                                                 113
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                            ©ISO/IEC


    6.7.5 Declarators
    Syntax
1            declarator:
                    pointeropt direct-declarator
             direct-declarator:
                     identifier
                     ( declarator )
                     direct-declarator [ type-qualifier-listopt assignment-expressionopt ]
                     direct-declarator [ static type-qualifier-listopt assignment-expression ]
                     direct-declarator [ type-qualifier-list static assignment-expression ]
                     direct-declarator [ type-qualifier-listopt * ]
                     direct-declarator ( parameter-type-list )
                     direct-declarator ( identifier-listopt )
             pointer:
                    * type-qualifier-listopt
                    * type-qualifier-listopt pointer
             type-qualifier-list:
                    type-qualifier
                    type-qualifier-list type-qualifier
             parameter-type-list:
                   parameter-list
                   parameter-list , ...
             parameter-list:
                   parameter-declaration
                   parameter-list , parameter-declaration
             parameter-declaration:
                   declaration-specifiers declarator
                   declaration-specifiers abstract-declaratoropt
             identifier-list:
                      identifier
                      identifier-list , identifier
    Semantics
2   Each declarator declares one identifier, and asserts that when an operand of the same
    form as the declarator appears in an expression, it designates a function or object with the
    scope, storage duration, and type indicated by the declaration specifiers.
3   A full declarator is a declarator that is not part of another declarator. The end of a full
    declarator is a sequence point. If the nested sequence of declarators in a full declarator
    114                                      Language                                   §6.7.5
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    contains a variable length array type, the type specified by the full declarator is said to be
    variably modified.
4   In the following subclauses, consider a declaration
            T D1
    where T contains the declaration specifiers that specify a type T (such as int) and D1 is
    a declarator that contains an identifier ident. The type specified for the identifier ident in
    the various forms of declarator is described inductively using this notation.
5   If, in the declaration ‘‘T D1’’, D1 has the form
            identifier
    then the type specified for ident is T .
6   If, in the declaration ‘‘T D1’’, D1 has the form
            ( D )
    then ident has the type specified by the declaration ‘‘T D’’. Thus, a declarator in
    parentheses is identical to the unparenthesized declarator, but the binding of complicated
    declarators may be altered by parentheses.
    Implementation limits
7   As discussed in 5.2.4.1, an implementation may limit the number of pointer, array, and
    function declarators that modify an arithmetic, structure, union, or incomplete type, either
    directly or via one or more typedefs.
    Forward references: array declarators (6.7.5.2), type definitions (6.7.7).
    6.7.5.1 Pointer declarators
    Semantics
1   If, in the declaration ‘‘T D1’’, D1 has the form
            * type-qualifier-listopt D
    and the type specified for ident in the declaration ‘‘T D’’ is ‘‘derived-declarator-type-list
    T ’’, then the type specified for ident is ‘‘derived-declarator-type-list type-qualifier-list
    pointer to T ’’. For each type qualifier in the list, ident is a so-qualified pointer.
2   For two pointer types to be compatible, both shall be identically qualified and both shall
    be pointers to compatible types.
3   EXAMPLE The following pair of declarations demonstrates the difference between a ‘‘variable pointer
    to a constant value’’ and a ‘‘constant pointer to a variable value’’.
            const int *ptr_to_constant;
            int *const constant_ptr;
    The contents of any object pointed to by ptr_to_constant shall not be modified through that pointer,

    §6.7.5.1                                    Language                                           115
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                            ©ISO/IEC


    but ptr_to_constant itself may be changed to point to another object. Similarly, the contents of the
    int pointed to by constant_ptr may be modified, but constant_ptr itself shall always point to the
    same location.
4   The declaration of the constant pointer constant_ptr may be clarified by including a definition for the
    type ‘‘pointer to int’’.
             typedef int *int_ptr;
             const int_ptr constant_ptr;
    declares constant_ptr as an object that has type ‘‘const-qualified pointer to int’’.

    6.7.5.2 Array declarators
    Constraints
1   In addition to optional type qualifiers and the keyword static, the [ and ] may delimit
    an expression or *. If they delimit an expression (which specifies the size of an array), the
    expression shall have an integer type. If the expression is a constant expression, it shall
    have a value greater than zero. The element type shall not be an incomplete or function
    type. The optional type qualifiers and the keyword static shall appear only in a
    declaration of a function parameter with an array type, and then only in the outermost
    array type derivation.
2   Only an ordinary identifier (as defined in 6.2.3) with both block scope or function
    prototype scope and no linkage shall have a variably modified type. If an identifier is
    declared to be an object with static storage duration, it shall not have a variable length
    array type.
    Semantics
3   If, in the declaration ‘‘T D1’’, D1 has one of the forms:
             D[ type-qualifier-listopt assignment-expressionopt ]
             D[ static type-qualifier-listopt assignment-expression ]
             D[ type-qualifier-list static assignment-expression ]
             D[ type-qualifier-listopt * ]
    and the type specified for ident in the declaration ‘‘T D’’ is ‘‘derived-declarator-type-list
    T ’’, then the type specified for ident is ‘‘derived-declarator-type-list array of T ’’.121)
    (See 6.7.5.3 for the meaning of the optional type qualifiers and the keyword static.)
4   If the size is not present, the array type is an incomplete type. If the size is * instead of
    being an expression, the array type is a variable length array type of unspecified size,
    which can only be used in declarations with function prototype scope;122) such arrays are
    nonetheless complete types. If the size is an integer constant expression and the element


    121) When several ‘‘array of’’ specifications are adjacent, a multidimensional array is declared.
    122) Thus, * can be used only in function declarations that are not definitions (see 6.7.5.3).

    116                                              Language                                           §6.7.5.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    type has a known constant size, the array type is not a variable length array type;
    otherwise, the array type is a variable length array type.
5   If the size is an expression that is not an integer constant expression: if it occurs in a
    declaration at function prototype scope, it is treated as if it were replaced by *; otherwise,
    each time it is evaluated it shall have a value greater than zero. The size of each instance
    of a variable length array type does not change during its lifetime. Where a size
    expression is part of the operand of a sizeof operator and changing the value of the
    size expression would not affect the result of the operator, it is unspecified whether or not
    the size expression is evaluated.
6   For two array types to be compatible, both shall have compatible element types, and if
    both size specifiers are present, and are integer constant expressions, then both size
    specifiers shall have the same constant value. If the two array types are used in a context
    which requires them to be compatible, it is undefined behavior if the two size specifiers
    evaluate to unequal values.
7   EXAMPLE 1
             float fa[11], *afp[17];
    declares an array of float numbers and an array of pointers to float numbers.

8   EXAMPLE 2       Note the distinction between the declarations
             extern int *x;
             extern int y[];
    The first declares x to be a pointer to int; the second declares y to be an array of int of unspecified size
    (an incomplete type), the storage for which is defined elsewhere.

9   EXAMPLE 3       The following declarations demonstrate the compatibility rules for variably modified types.
             extern int n;
             extern int m;
             void fcompat(void)
             {
                   int a[n][6][m];
                   int (*p)[4][n+1];
                   int c[n][n][6][m];
                   int (*r)[n][n][n+1];
                   p = a;       // invalid: not compatible because 4 != 6
                   r = c;       // compatible, but defined behavior only if
                                // n == 6 and m == n+1
             }




    §6.7.5.2                                        Language                                               117
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                             ©ISO/IEC


10   EXAMPLE 4 All declarations of variably modified (VM) types have to be at either block scope or
     function prototype scope. Array objects declared with the static or extern storage-class specifier
     cannot have a variable length array (VLA) type. However, an object declared with the static storage-
     class specifier can have a VM type (that is, a pointer to a VLA type). Finally, all identifiers declared with a
     VM type have to be ordinary identifiers and cannot, therefore, be members of structures or unions.
              extern int n;
              int A[n];                                              // invalid: file scope VLA
              extern int (*p2)[n];                                   // invalid: file scope VM
              int B[100];                                            // valid: file scope but not VM
              void fvla(int m, int C[m][m]);                         // valid: VLA with prototype scope
              void fvla(int m, int C[m][m])                          // valid: adjusted to auto pointer to VLA
              {
                    typedef int VLA[m][m]                            // valid: block scope typedef VLA
                       struct tag {
                             int (*y)[n];                            // invalid: y not ordinary identifier
                             int z[n];                               // invalid: z not ordinary identifier
                       };
                       int D[m];                                     // valid: auto VLA
                       static int E[m];                              // invalid: static block scope VLA
                       extern int F[m];                              // invalid: F has linkage and is VLA
                       int (*s)[m];                                  // valid: auto pointer to VLA
                       extern int (*r)[m];                           // invalid: r has linkage and points to VLA
                       static int (*q)[m] = &B;                      // valid: q is a static block pointer to VLA
              }

     Forward references:            function declarators (6.7.5.3), function definitions (6.9.1),
     initialization (6.7.8).
     6.7.5.3 Function declarators (including prototypes)
     Constraints
1    A function declarator shall not specify a return type that is a function type or an array
     type.
2    The only storage-class specifier that shall occur in a parameter declaration is register.
3    An identifier list in a function declarator that is not part of a definition of that function
     shall be empty.
4    After adjustment, the parameters in a parameter type list in a function declarator that is
     part of a definition of that function shall not have incomplete type.
     Semantics
5    If, in the declaration ‘‘T D1’’, D1 has the form
              D( parameter-type-list )
     or
              D( identifier-listopt )

     118                                              Language                                           §6.7.5.3
     ©ISO/IEC                                                            ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


     and the type specified for ident in the declaration ‘‘T D’’ is ‘‘derived-declarator-type-list
     T ’’, then the type specified for ident is ‘‘derived-declarator-type-list function returning
     T ’’.
6    A parameter type list specifies the types of, and may declare identifiers for, the
     parameters of the function.
7    A declaration of a parameter as ‘‘array of type’’ shall be adjusted to ‘‘qualified pointer to
     type’’, where the type qualifiers (if any) are those specified within the [ and ] of the
     array type derivation. If the keyword static also appears within the [ and ] of the
     array type derivation, then for each call to the function, the value of the corresponding
     actual argument shall provide access to the first element of an array with at least as many
     elements as specified by the size expression.
8    A declaration of a parameter as ‘‘function returning type’’ shall be adjusted to ‘‘pointer to
     function returning type’’, as in 6.3.2.1.
9    If the list terminates with an ellipsis (, ...), no information about the number or types
     of the parameters after the comma is supplied.123)
10   The special case of an unnamed parameter of type void as the only item in the list
     specifies that the function has no parameters.
11   In a parameter declaration, a single typedef name in parentheses is taken to be an abstract
     declarator that specifies a function with a single parameter, not as redundant parentheses
     around the identifier for a declarator.
12   If the function declarator is not part of a definition of that function, parameters may have
     incomplete type and may use the [*] notation in their sequences of declarator specifiers
     to specify variable length array types.
13   The storage-class specifier in the declaration specifiers for a parameter declaration, if
     present, is ignored unless the declared parameter is one of the members of the parameter
     type list for a function definition.
14   An identifier list declares only the identifiers of the parameters of the function. An empty
     list in a function declarator that is part of a definition of that function specifies that the
     function has no parameters. The empty list in a function declarator that is not part of a
     definition of that function specifies that no information about the number or types of the
     parameters is supplied.124)




     123) The macros defined in the <stdarg.h> header (7.15) may be used to access arguments that
          correspond to the ellipsis.
     124) See ‘‘future language directions’’ (6.11.6).

     §6.7.5.3                                            Language                              119
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                            ©ISO/IEC


15   For two function types to be compatible, both shall specify compatible return types.125)
     Moreover, the parameter type lists, if both are present, shall agree in the number of
     parameters and in use of the ellipsis terminator; corresponding parameters shall have
     compatible types. If one type has a parameter type list and the other type is specified by a
     function declarator that is not part of a function definition and that contains an empty
     identifier list, the parameter list shall not have an ellipsis terminator and the type of each
     parameter shall be compatible with the type that results from the application of the
     default argument promotions. If one type has a parameter type list and the other type is
     specified by a function definition that contains a (possibly empty) identifier list, both shall
     agree in the number of parameters, and the type of each prototype parameter shall be
     compatible with the type that results from the application of the default argument
     promotions to the type of the corresponding identifier. (In the determination of type
     compatibility and of a composite type, each parameter declared with function or array
     type is taken as having the adjusted type and each parameter declared with qualified type
     is taken as having the unqualified version of its declared type.)
16   EXAMPLE 1       The declaration
              int f(void), *fip(), (*pfi)();
     declares a function f with no parameters returning an int, a function fip with no parameter specification
     returning a pointer to an int, and a pointer pfi to a function with no parameter specification returning an
     int. It is especially useful to compare the last two. The binding of *fip() is *(fip()), so that the
     declaration suggests, and the same construction in an expression requires, the calling of a function fip,
     and then using indirection through the pointer result to yield an int. In the declarator (*pfi)(), the
     extra parentheses are necessary to indicate that indirection through a pointer to a function yields a function
     designator, which is then used to call the function; it returns an int.
17   If the declaration occurs outside of any function, the identifiers have file scope and external linkage. If the
     declaration occurs inside a function, the identifiers of the functions f and fip have block scope and either
     internal or external linkage (depending on what file scope declarations for these identifiers are visible), and
     the identifier of the pointer pfi has block scope and no linkage.

18   EXAMPLE 2       The declaration
              int (*apfi[3])(int *x, int *y);
     declares an array apfi of three pointers to functions returning int. Each of these functions has two
     parameters that are pointers to int. The identifiers x and y are declared for descriptive purposes only and
     go out of scope at the end of the declaration of apfi.

19   EXAMPLE 3       The declaration
              int (*fpfi(int (*)(long), int))(int, ...);
     declares a function fpfi that returns a pointer to a function returning an int. The function fpfi has two
     parameters: a pointer to a function returning an int (with one parameter of type long int), and an int.
     The pointer returned by fpfi points to a function that has one int parameter and accepts zero or more
     additional arguments of any type.


     125) If both function types are ‘‘old style’’, parameter types are not compared.

     120                                              Language                                           §6.7.5.3
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


20   EXAMPLE 4       The following prototype has a variably modified parameter.
               void addscalar(int n, int m,
                     double a[n][n*m+300], double x);
               int main()
               {
                     double b[4][308];
                     addscalar(4, 2, b, 2.17);
                     return 0;
               }
               void addscalar(int n, int m,
                     double a[n][n*m+300], double x)
               {
                     for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
                           for (int j = 0, k = n*m+300; j < k; j++)
                                 // a is a pointer to a VLA with n*m+300 elements
                                 a[i][j] += x;
               }

21   EXAMPLE 5       The following are all compatible function prototype declarators.
               double maximum(int n, int m, double a[n][m]);
               double maximum(int n, int m, double a[*][*]);
               double maximum(int n, int m, double a[ ][*]);
               double maximum(int n, int m, double a[ ][m]);
     as are:
               void f(double (* restrict a)[5]);
               void f(double a[restrict][5]);
               void f(double a[restrict 3][5]);
               void f(double a[restrict static 3][5]);
     (Note that the last declaration also specifies that the argument corresponding to a in any call to f must be a
     non-null pointer to the first of at least three arrays of 5 doubles, which the others do not.)

     Forward references: function definitions (6.9.1), type names (6.7.6).




     §6.7.5.3                                        Language                                                 121
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


    6.7.6 Type names
    Syntax
1            type-name:
                    specifier-qualifier-list abstract-declaratoropt
             abstract-declarator:
                    pointer
                    pointeropt direct-abstract-declarator
             direct-abstract-declarator:
                     ( abstract-declarator )
                     direct-abstract-declaratoropt [ assignment-expressionopt ]
                     direct-abstract-declaratoropt [ * ]
                     direct-abstract-declaratoropt ( parameter-type-listopt )
    Semantics
2   In several contexts, it is necessary to specify a type. This is accomplished using a type
    name, which is syntactically a declaration for a function or an object of that type that
    omits the identifier.126)
3   EXAMPLE        The constructions
             (a)      int
             (b)      int *
             (c)      int *[3]
             (d)      int (*)[3]
             (e)      int (*)[*]
             (f)      int *()
             (g)      int (*)(void)
             (h)      int (*const [])(unsigned int, ...)
    name respectively the types (a) int, (b) pointer to int, (c) array of three pointers to int, (d) pointer to an
    array of three ints, (e) pointer to a variable length array of an unspecified number of ints, (f) function
    with no parameter specification returning a pointer to int, (g) pointer to function with no parameters
    returning an int, and (h) array of an unspecified number of constant pointers to functions, each with one
    parameter that has type unsigned int and an unspecified number of other parameters, returning an
    int.




    126) As indicated by the syntax, empty parentheses in a type name are interpreted as ‘‘function with no
         parameter specification’’, rather than redundant parentheses around the omitted identifier.

    122                                             Language                                              §6.7.6
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.7.7 Type definitions
    Syntax
1            typedef-name:
                    identifier
    Constraints
2   If a typedef name specifies a variably modified type then it shall have block scope.
    Semantics
3   In a declaration whose storage-class specifier is typedef, each declarator defines an
    identifier to be a typedef name that denotes the type specified for the identifier in the way
    described in 6.7.5. Any array size expressions associated with variable length array
    declarators are evaluated each time the declaration of the typedef name is reached in the
    order of execution. A typedef declaration does not introduce a new type, only a
    synonym for the type so specified. That is, in the following declarations:
             typedef T type_ident;
             type_ident D;
    type_ident is defined as a typedef name with the type specified by the declaration
    specifiers in T (known as T ), and the identifier in D has the type ‘‘derived-declarator-
    type-list T ’’ where the derived-declarator-type-list is specified by the declarators of D. A
    typedef name shares the same name space as other identifiers declared in ordinary
    declarators.
4   EXAMPLE 1       After
             typedef int MILES, KLICKSP();
             typedef struct { double hi, lo; } range;
    the constructions
             MILES distance;
             extern KLICKSP *metricp;
             range x;
             range z, *zp;
    are all valid declarations. The type of distance is int, that of metricp is ‘‘pointer to function with no
    parameter specification returning int’’, and that of x and z is the specified structure; zp is a pointer to
    such a structure. The object distance has a type compatible with any other int object.

5   EXAMPLE 2       After the declarations
             typedef struct s1 { int x; } t1, *tp1;
             typedef struct s2 { int x; } t2, *tp2;
    type t1 and the type pointed to by tp1 are compatible. Type t1 is also compatible with type struct
    s1, but not compatible with the types struct s2, t2, the type pointed to by tp2, or int.




    §6.7.7                                         Language                                               123
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


6   EXAMPLE 3       The following obscure constructions
             typedef signed int t;
             typedef int plain;
             struct tag {
                   unsigned t:4;
                   const t:5;
                   plain r:5;
             };
    declare a typedef name t with type signed int, a typedef name plain with type int, and a structure
    with three bit-field members, one named t that contains values in the range [0, 15], an unnamed const-
    qualified bit-field which (if it could be accessed) would contain values in either the range [−15, +15] or
    [−16, +15], and one named r that contains values in one of the ranges [0, 31], [−15, +15], or [−16, +15].
    (The choice of range is implementation-defined.) The first two bit-field declarations differ in that
    unsigned is a type specifier (which forces t to be the name of a structure member), while const is a
    type qualifier (which modifies t which is still visible as a typedef name). If these declarations are followed
    in an inner scope by
             t f(t (t));
             long t;
    then a function f is declared with type ‘‘function returning signed int with one unnamed parameter
    with type pointer to function returning signed int with one unnamed parameter with type signed
    int’’, and an identifier t with type long int.

7   EXAMPLE 4 On the other hand, typedef names can be used to improve code readability. All three of the
    following declarations of the signal function specify exactly the same type, the first without making use
    of any typedef names.
             typedef void fv(int), (*pfv)(int);
             void (*signal(int, void (*)(int)))(int);
             fv *signal(int, fv *);
             pfv signal(int, pfv);

8   EXAMPLE 5 If a typedef name denotes a variable length array type, the length of the array is fixed at the
    time the typedef name is defined, not each time it is used:
             void copyt(int n)
             {
                   typedef int B[n];   // B is n ints, n evaluated now
                   n += 1;
                   B a;                // a is n ints, n without += 1
                   int b[n];           // a and b are different sizes
                   for (int i = 1; i < n; i++)
                         a[i-1] = b[i];
             }




    124                                             Language                                              §6.7.7
    ©ISO/IEC                                                           ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.7.8 Initialization
    Syntax
1            initializer:
                      assignment-expression
                      { initializer-list }
                      { initializer-list , }
             initializer-list:
                      designationopt initializer
                      initializer-list , designationopt initializer
             designation:
                    designator-list =
             designator-list:
                    designator
                    designator-list designator
             designator:
                    [ constant-expression ]
                    . identifier
    Constraints
2   No initializer shall attempt to provide a value for an object not contained within the entity
    being initialized.
3   The type of the entity to be initialized shall be an array of unknown size or an object type
    that is not a variable length array type.
4   All the expressions in an initializer for an object that has static storage duration shall be
    constant expressions or string literals.
5   If the declaration of an identifier has block scope, and the identifier has external or
    internal linkage, the declaration shall have no initializer for the identifier.
6   If a designator has the form
             [ constant-expression ]
    then the current object (defined below) shall have array type and the expression shall be
    an integer constant expression. If the array is of unknown size, any nonnegative value is
    valid.
7   If a designator has the form
             . identifier
    then the current object (defined below) shall have structure or union type and the
    identifier shall be the name of a member of that type.
    §6.7.8                                  Language                              125
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                             ©ISO/IEC


     Semantics
8    An initializer specifies the initial value stored in an object.
9    Except where explicitly stated otherwise, for the purposes of this subclause unnamed
     members of objects of structure and union type do not participate in initialization.
     Unnamed members of structure objects have indeterminate value even after initialization.
10   If an object that has automatic storage duration is not initialized explicitly, its value is
     indeterminate. If an object that has static storage duration is not initialized explicitly,
     then:
     — if it has pointer type, it is initialized to a null pointer;
     — if it has arithmetic type, it is initialized to (positive or unsigned) zero;
     — if it is an aggregate, every member is initialized (recursively) according to these rules;
     — if it is a union, the first named member is initialized (recursively) according to these
       rules.
11   The initializer for a scalar shall be a single expression, optionally enclosed in braces. The
     initial value of the object is that of the expression (after conversion); the same type
     constraints and conversions as for simple assignment apply, taking the type of the scalar
     to be the unqualified version of its declared type.
12   The rest of this subclause deals with initializers for objects that have aggregate or union
     type.
13   The initializer for a structure or union object that has automatic storage duration shall be
     either an initializer list as described below, or a single expression that has compatible
     structure or union type. In the latter case, the initial value of the object, including
     unnamed members, is that of the expression.
14   An array of character type may be initialized by a character string literal, optionally
     enclosed in braces. Successive characters of the character string literal (including the
     terminating null character if there is room or if the array is of unknown size) initialize the
     elements of the array.
15   An array with element type compatible with wchar_t may be initialized by a wide
     string literal, optionally enclosed in braces. Successive wide characters of the wide string
     literal (including the terminating null wide character if there is room or if the array is of
     unknown size) initialize the elements of the array.
16   Otherwise, the initializer for an object that has aggregate or union type shall be a brace-
     enclosed list of initializers for the elements or named members.
17   Each brace-enclosed initializer list has an associated current object. When no
     designations are present, subobjects of the current object are initialized in order according
     to the type of the current object: array elements in increasing subscript order, structure
     126                                        Language                                    §6.7.8
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


     members in declaration order, and the first named member of a union.127) In contrast, a
     designation causes the following initializer to begin initialization of the subobject
     described by the designator. Initialization then continues forward in order, beginning
     with the next subobject after that described by the designator.128)
18   Each designator list begins its description with the current object associated with the
     closest surrounding brace pair. Each item in the designator list (in order) specifies a
     particular member of its current object and changes the current object for the next
     designator (if any) to be that member.129) The current object that results at the end of the
     designator list is the subobject to be initialized by the following initializer.
19   The initialization shall occur in initializer list order, each initializer provided for a
     particular subobject overriding any previously listed initializer for the same subobject; all
     subobjects that are not initialized explicitly shall be initialized implicitly the same as
     objects that have static storage duration.
20   If the aggregate or union contains elements or members that are aggregates or unions,
     these rules apply recursively to the subaggregates or contained unions. If the initializer of
     a subaggregate or contained union begins with a left brace, the initializers enclosed by
     that brace and its matching right brace initialize the elements or members of the
     subaggregate or the contained union. Otherwise, only enough initializers from the list are
     taken to account for the elements or members of the subaggregate or the first member of
     the contained union; any remaining initializers are left to initialize the next element or
     member of the aggregate of which the current subaggregate or contained union is a part.
21   If there are fewer initializers in a brace-enclosed list than there are elements or members
     of an aggregate, or fewer characters in a string literal used to initialize an array of known
     size than there are elements in the array, the remainder of the aggregate shall be
     initialized implicitly the same as objects that have static storage duration.
22   If an array of unknown size is initialized, its size is determined by the largest indexed
     element with an explicit initializer. At the end of its initializer list, the array no longer
     has incomplete type.




     127) If the initializer list for a subaggregate or contained union does not begin with a left brace, its
          subobjects are initialized as usual, but the subaggregate or contained union does not become the
          current object: current objects are associated only with brace-enclosed initializer lists.
     128) After a union member is initialized, the next object is not the next member of the union; instead, it is
          the next subobject of an object containing the union.
     129) Thus, a designator can only specify a strict subobject of the aggregate or union that is associated with
          the surrounding brace pair. Note, too, that each separate designator list is independent.

     §6.7.8                                          Language                                                127
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                               ©ISO/IEC


23   The order in which any side effects occur among the initialization list expressions is
     unspecified.130)
24   EXAMPLE 1        Provided that <complex.h> has been #included, the declarations
              int i = 3.5;
              complex c = 5 + 3 * I;
     define and initialize i with the value 3 and c with the value 5. 0 + 3. 0i .

25   EXAMPLE 2        The declaration
              int x[] = { 1, 3, 5 };
     defines and initializes x as a one-dimensional array object that has three elements, as no size was specified
     and there are three initializers.

26   EXAMPLE 3        The declaration
              int y[4][3] = {
                    { 1, 3, 5 },
                    { 2, 4, 6 },
                    { 3, 5, 7 },
              };
     is a definition with a fully bracketed initialization: 1, 3, and 5 initialize the first row of y (the array object
     y[0]), namely y[0][0], y[0][1], and y[0][2]. Likewise the next two lines initialize y[1] and
     y[2]. The initializer ends early, so y[3] is initialized with zeros. Precisely the same effect could have
     been achieved by
              int y[4][3] = {
                    1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6, 3, 5, 7
              };
     The initializer for y[0] does not begin with a left brace, so three items from the list are used. Likewise the
     next three are taken successively for y[1] and y[2].

27   EXAMPLE 4        The declaration
              int z[4][3] = {
                    { 1 }, { 2 }, { 3 }, { 4 }
              };
     initializes the first column of z as specified and initializes the rest with zeros.

28   EXAMPLE 5        The declaration
              struct { int a[3], b; } w[] = { { 1 }, 2 };
     is a definition with an inconsistently bracketed initialization. It defines an array with two element
     structures: w[0].a[0] is 1 and w[1].a[0] is 2; all the other elements are zero.




     130) In particular, the evaluation order need not be the same as the order of subobject initialization.

     128                                                Language                                               §6.7.8
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


29   EXAMPLE 6         The declaration
               short q[4][3][2] = {
                     { 1 },
                     { 2, 3 },
                     { 4, 5, 6 }
               };
     contains an incompletely but consistently bracketed initialization. It defines a three-dimensional array
     object: q[0][0][0] is 1, q[1][0][0] is 2, q[1][0][1] is 3, and 4, 5, and 6 initialize
     q[2][0][0], q[2][0][1], and q[2][1][0], respectively; all the rest are zero. The initializer for
     q[0][0] does not begin with a left brace, so up to six items from the current list may be used. There is
     only one, so the values for the remaining five elements are initialized with zero. Likewise, the initializers
     for q[1][0] and q[2][0] do not begin with a left brace, so each uses up to six items, initializing their
     respective two-dimensional subaggregates. If there had been more than six items in any of the lists, a
     diagnostic message would have been issued. The same initialization result could have been achieved by:
               short q[4][3][2] = {
                     1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,
                     2, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0,
                     4, 5, 6
               };
     or by:
               short q[4][3][2] = {
                     {
                           { 1 },
                     },
                     {
                           { 2, 3 },
                     },
                     {
                           { 4, 5 },
                           { 6 },
                     }
               };
     in a fully bracketed form.
30   Note that the fully bracketed and minimally bracketed forms of initialization are, in general, less likely to
     cause confusion.

31   EXAMPLE 7         One form of initialization that completes array types involves typedef names. Given the
     declaration
               typedef int A[];          // OK - declared with block scope
     the declaration
               A a = { 1, 2 }, b = { 3, 4, 5 };
     is identical to
               int a[] = { 1, 2 }, b[] = { 3, 4, 5 };
     due to the rules for incomplete types.



     §6.7.8                                          Language                                                129
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                            ©ISO/IEC


32   EXAMPLE 8       The declaration
              char s[] = "abc", t[3] = "abc";
     defines ‘‘plain’’ char array objects s and t whose elements are initialized with character string literals.
     This declaration is identical to
              char s[] = { 'a', 'b', 'c', '\0' },
                   t[] = { 'a', 'b', 'c' };
     The contents of the arrays are modifiable. On the other hand, the declaration
              char *p = "abc";
     defines p with type ‘‘pointer to char’’ and initializes it to point to an object with type ‘‘array of char’’
     with length 4 whose elements are initialized with a character string literal. If an attempt is made to use p to
     modify the contents of the array, the behavior is undefined.

33   EXAMPLE 9       Arrays can be initialized to correspond to the elements of an enumeration by using
     designators:
              enum { member_one, member_two };
              const char *nm[] = {
                    [member_two] = "member two",
                    [member_one] = "member one",
              };

34   EXAMPLE 10       Structure members can be initialized to nonzero values without depending on their order:
              div_t answer = { .quot = 2, .rem = -1 };

35   EXAMPLE 11 Designators can be used to provide explicit initialization when unadorned initializer lists
     might be misunderstood:
              struct { int a[3], b; } w[] =
                    { [0].a = {1}, [1].a[0] = 2 };

36   EXAMPLE 12       Space can be ‘‘allocated’’ from both ends of an array by using a single designator:
              int a[MAX] = {
                    1, 3, 5, 7, 9, [MAX-5] = 8, 6, 4, 2, 0
              };
37   In the above, if MAX is greater than ten, there will be some zero-valued elements in the middle; if it is less
     than ten, some of the values provided by the first five initializers will be overridden by the second five.

38   EXAMPLE 13       Any member of a union can be initialized:
              union { /* ... */ } u = { .any_member = 42 };

     Forward references: common definitions <stddef.h> (7.17).




     130                                              Language                                              §6.7.8
    ©ISO/IEC                                                           ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.8 Statements and blocks
    Syntax
1            statement:
                    labeled-statement
                    compound-statement
                    expression-statement
                    selection-statement
                    iteration-statement
                    jump-statement
    Semantics
2   A statement specifies an action to be performed. Except as indicated, statements are
    executed in sequence.
3   A block allows a set of declarations and statements to be grouped into one syntactic unit.
    The initializers of objects that have automatic storage duration, and the variable length
    array declarators of ordinary identifiers with block scope, are evaluated and the values are
    stored in the objects (including storing an indeterminate value in objects without an
    initializer) each time the declaration is reached in the order of execution, as if it were a
    statement, and within each declaration in the order that declarators appear.
4   A full expression is an expression that is not part of another expression or of a declarator.
    Each of the following is a full expression: an initializer; the expression in an expression
    statement; the controlling expression of a selection statement (if or switch); the
    controlling expression of a while or do statement; each of the (optional) expressions of
    a for statement; the (optional) expression in a return statement. The end of a full
    expression is a sequence point.
    Forward references: expression and null statements (6.8.3), selection statements
    (6.8.4), iteration statements (6.8.5), the return statement (6.8.6.4).
    6.8.1 Labeled statements
    Syntax
1            labeled-statement:
                    identifier : statement
                    case constant-expression : statement
                    default : statement
    Constraints
2   A case or default label shall appear only in a switch statement. Further
    constraints on such labels are discussed under the switch statement.


    §6.8.1                                   Language                                        131
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                        ©ISO/IEC


3   Label names shall be unique within a function.
    Semantics
4   Any statement may be preceded by a prefix that declares an identifier as a label name.
    Labels in themselves do not alter the flow of control, which continues unimpeded across
    them.
    Forward references: the goto statement (6.8.6.1), the switch statement (6.8.4.2).
    6.8.2 Compound statement
    Syntax
1            compound-statement:
                   { block-item-listopt }
             block-item-list:
                     block-item
                     block-item-list block-item
             block-item:
                     declaration
                     statement
    Semantics
2   A compound statement is a block.
    6.8.3 Expression and null statements
    Syntax
1            expression-statement:
                    expressionopt ;
    Semantics
2   The expression in an expression statement is evaluated as a void expression for its side
    effects.131)
3   A null statement (consisting of just a semicolon) performs no operations.
4   EXAMPLE 1 If a function call is evaluated as an expression statement for its side effects only, the
    discarding of its value may be made explicit by converting the expression to a void expression by means of
    a cast:
             int p(int);
             /* ... */
             (void)p(0);



    131) Such as assignments, and function calls which have side effects.

    132                                            Language                                           §6.8.3
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                       ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


5   EXAMPLE 2       In the program fragment
             char *s;
             /* ... */
             while (*s++ != '\0')
                     ;
    a null statement is used to supply an empty loop body to the iteration statement.

6   EXAMPLE 3       A null statement may also be used to carry a label just before the closing } of a compound
    statement.
             while (loop1) {
                   /* ... */
                   while (loop2) {
                           /* ... */
                           if (want_out)
                                   goto end_loop1;
                           /* ... */
                   }
                   /* ... */
             end_loop1: ;
             }

    Forward references: iteration statements (6.8.5).
    6.8.4 Selection statements
    Syntax
1            selection-statement:
                     if ( expression ) statement
                     if ( expression ) statement else statement
                     switch ( expression ) statement
    Semantics
2   A selection statement selects among a set of statements depending on the value of a
    controlling expression.
3   A selection statement is a block whose scope is a strict subset of the scope of its
    enclosing block. Each associated substatement is also a block whose scope is a strict
    subset of the scope of the selection statement.
    6.8.4.1 The if statement
    Constraints
1   The controlling expression of an if statement shall have scalar type.
    Semantics
2   In both forms, the first substatement is executed if the expression compares unequal to 0.
    In the else form, the second substatement is executed if the expression compares equal


    §6.8.4.1                                        Language                                             133
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                 ©ISO/IEC


    to 0. If the first substatement is reached via a label, the second substatement is not
    executed.
3   An else is associated with the lexically nearest preceding if that is allowed by the
    syntax.
    6.8.4.2 The switch statement
    Constraints
1   The controlling expression of a switch statement shall have integer type.
2   If a switch statement has an associated case or default label within the scope of an
    identifier with a variably modified type, the entire switch statement shall be within the
    scope of that identifier.132)
3   The expression of each case label shall be an integer constant expression and no two of
    the case constant expressions in the same switch statement shall have the same value
    after conversion. There may be at most one default label in a switch statement.
    (Any enclosed switch statement may have a default label or case constant
    expressions with values that duplicate case constant expressions in the enclosing
    switch statement.)
    Semantics
4   A switch statement causes control to jump to, into, or past the statement that is the
    switch body, depending on the value of a controlling expression, and on the presence of a
    default label and the values of any case labels on or in the switch body. A case or
    default label is accessible only within the closest enclosing switch statement.
5   The integer promotions are performed on the controlling expression. The constant
    expression in each case label is converted to the promoted type of the controlling
    expression. If a converted value matches that of the promoted controlling expression,
    control jumps to the statement following the matched case label. Otherwise, if there is
    a default label, control jumps to the labeled statement. If no converted case constant
    expression matches and there is no default label, no part of the switch body is
    executed.
    Implementation limits
6   As discussed in 5.2.4.1, the implementation may limit the number of case values in a
    switch statement.




    132) That is, the declaration either precedes the switch statement, or it follows the last case or
         default label associated with the switch that is in the block containing the declaration.

    134                                        Language                                      §6.8.4.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


7   EXAMPLE        In the artificial program fragment
             switch (expr)
             {
                   int i = 4;
                   f(i);
             case 0:
                   i = 17;
                   /* falls through into default code */
             default:
                   printf("%d\n", i);
             }
    the object whose identifier is i exists with automatic storage duration (within the block) but is never
    initialized, and thus if the controlling expression has a nonzero value, the call to the printf function will
    access an indeterminate value. Similarly, the call to the function f cannot be reached.

    6.8.5 Iteration statements
    Syntax
1            iteration-statement:
                     while ( expression ) statement
                     do statement while ( expression ) ;
                     for ( expressionopt ; expressionopt ; expressionopt ) statement
                     for ( declaration expressionopt ; expressionopt ) statement
    Constraints
2   The controlling expression of an iteration statement shall have scalar type.
3   The declaration part of a for statement shall only declare identifiers for objects having
    storage class auto or register.
    Semantics
4   An iteration statement causes a statement called the loop body to be executed repeatedly
    until the controlling expression compares equal to 0.
5   An iteration statement is a block whose scope is a strict subset of the scope of its
    enclosing block. The loop body is also a block whose scope is a strict subset of the scope
    of the iteration statement.




    §6.8.5                                          Language                                                135
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


    6.8.5.1 The while statement
1   The evaluation of the controlling expression takes place before each execution of the loop
    body.
    6.8.5.2 The do statement
1   The evaluation of the controlling expression takes place after each execution of the loop
    body.
    6.8.5.3 The for statement
1   The statement
             for ( clause-1 ; expression-2 ; expression-3 ) statement
    behaves as follows: The expression expression-2 is the controlling expression that is
    evaluated before each execution of the loop body. The expression expression-3 is
    evaluated as a void expression after each execution of the loop body. If clause-1 is a
    declaration, the scope of any variables it declares is the remainder of the declaration and
    the entire loop, including the other two expressions; it is reached in the order of execution
    before the first evaluation of the controlling expression. If clause-1 is an expression, it is
    evaluated as a void expression before the first evaluation of the controlling expression.133)
2   Both clause-1 and expression-3 can be omitted. An omitted expression-2 is replaced by a
    nonzero constant.
    6.8.6 Jump statements
    Syntax
1            jump-statement:
                    goto identifier ;
                    continue ;
                    break ;
                    return expressionopt ;
    Semantics
2   A jump statement causes an unconditional jump to another place.




    133) Thus, clause-1 specifies initialization for the loop, possibly declaring one or more variables for use in
         the loop; the controlling expression, expression-2, specifies an evaluation made before each iteration,
         such that execution of the loop continues until the expression compares equal to 0; and expression-3
         specifies an operation (such as incrementing) that is performed after each iteration.

    136                                             Language                                              §6.8.6
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                        ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.8.6.1 The goto statement
    Constraints
1   The identifier in a goto statement shall name a label located somewhere in the enclosing
    function. A goto statement shall not jump from outside the scope of an identifier having
    a variably modified type to inside the scope of that identifier.
    Semantics
2   A goto statement causes an unconditional jump to the statement prefixed by the named
    label in the enclosing function.
3   EXAMPLE 1 It is sometimes convenient to jump into the middle of a complicated set of statements. The
    following outline presents one possible approach to a problem based on these three assumptions:
      1.   The general initialization code accesses objects only visible to the current function.
      2.   The general initialization code is too large to warrant duplication.
      3.   The code to determine the next operation is at the head of the loop. (To allow it to be reached by
           continue statements, for example.)
            /* ... */
            goto first_time;
            for (;;) {
                    // determine next operation
                    /* ... */
                    if (need to reinitialize) {
                            // reinitialize-only code
                            /* ... */
                    first_time:
                            // general initialization code
                            /* ... */
                            continue;
                    }
                    // handle other operations
                    /* ... */
            }




    §6.8.6.1                                         Language                                           137
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                               ©ISO/IEC


4   EXAMPLE 2 A goto statement is not allowed to jump past any declarations of objects with variably
    modified types. A jump within the scope, however, is permitted.
            goto lab3;                         // invalid: going INTO scope of VLA.
            {
                  double a[n];
                  a[j] = 4.4;
            lab3:
                  a[j] = 3.3;
                  goto lab4;                   // valid: going WITHIN scope of VLA.
                  a[j] = 5.5;
            lab4:
                  a[j] = 6.6;
            }
            goto lab4;                         // invalid: going INTO scope of VLA.

    6.8.6.2 The continue statement
    Constraints
1   A continue statement shall appear only in or as a loop body.
    Semantics
2   A continue statement causes a jump to the loop-continuation portion of the smallest
    enclosing iteration statement; that is, to the end of the loop body. More precisely, in each
    of the statements
    while (/* ... */) {                  do {                                 for (/* ... */) {
       /* ... */                            /* ... */                            /* ... */
       continue;                            continue;                            continue;
       /* ... */                            /* ... */                            /* ... */
    contin: ;                            contin: ;                            contin: ;
    }                                    } while (/* ... */);                 }
    unless the continue statement shown is in an enclosed iteration statement (in which
    case it is interpreted within that statement), it is equivalent to goto contin;.134)
    6.8.6.3 The break statement
    Constraints
1   A break statement shall appear only in or as a switch body or loop body.
    Semantics
2   A break statement terminates execution of the smallest enclosing switch or iteration
    statement.



    134) Following the contin: label is a null statement.

    138                                           Language                                 §6.8.6.3
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.8.6.4 The return statement
    Constraints
1   A return statement with an expression shall not appear in a function whose return type
    is void. A return statement without an expression shall only appear in a function
    whose return type is void.
    Semantics
2   A return statement terminates execution of the current function and returns control to
    its caller. A function may have any number of return statements.
3   If a return statement with an expression is executed, the value of the expression is
    returned to the caller as the value of the function call expression. If the expression has a
    type different from the return type of the function in which it appears, the value is
    converted as if by assignment to an object having the return type of the function.135)
4   EXAMPLE       In:
            struct s { double i; } f(void);
            union {
                  struct {
                        int f1;
                        struct s f2;
                  } u1;
                  struct {
                        struct s f3;
                        int f4;
                  } u2;
            } g;
            struct s f(void)
            {
                  return g.u1.f2;
            }
            /* ... */
            g.u2.f3 = f();
    there is no undefined behavior, although there would be if the assignment were done directly (without using
    a function call to fetch the value).




    135) The return statement is not an assignment. The overlap restriction of subclause 6.5.16.1 does not
         apply to the case of function return.

    §6.8.6.4                                       Language                                               139
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                       ©ISO/IEC


    6.9 External definitions
    Syntax
1            translation-unit:
                     external-declaration
                     translation-unit external-declaration
             external-declaration:
                    function-definition
                    declaration
    Constraints
2   The storage-class specifiers auto and register shall not appear in the declaration
    specifiers in an external declaration.
3   There shall be no more than one external definition for each identifier declared with
    internal linkage in a translation unit. Moreover, if an identifier declared with internal
    linkage is used in an expression (other than as a part of the operand of a sizeof
    operator whose result is an integer constant), there shall be exactly one external definition
    for the identifier in the translation unit.
    Semantics
4   As discussed in 5.1.1.1, the unit of program text after preprocessing is a translation unit,
    which consists of a sequence of external declarations. These are described as ‘‘external’’
    because they appear outside any function (and hence have file scope). As discussed in
    6.7, a declaration that also causes storage to be reserved for an object or a function named
    by the identifier is a definition.
5   An external definition is an external declaration that is also a definition of a function
    (other than an inline definition) or an object. If an identifier declared with external
    linkage is used in an expression (other than as part of the operand of a sizeof operator
    whose result is an integer constant), somewhere in the entire program there shall be
    exactly one external definition for the identifier; otherwise, there shall be no more than
    one.136)




    136) Thus, if an identifier declared with external linkage is not used in an expression, there need be no
         external definition for it.

    140                                           Language                                             §6.9
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                        ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.9.1 Function definitions
    Syntax
1            function-definition:
                    declaration-specifiers declarator declaration-listopt compound-statement
             declaration-list:
                    declaration
                    declaration-list declaration
    Constraints
2   The identifier declared in a function definition (which is the name of the function) shall
    have a function type, as specified by the declarator portion of the function definition.137)
3   The return type of a function shall be void or an object type other than array type.
4   The storage-class specifier, if any, in the declaration specifiers shall be either extern or
    static.
5   If the declarator includes a parameter type list, the declaration of each parameter shall
    include an identifier, except for the special case of a parameter list consisting of a single
    parameter of type void, in which case there shall not be an identifier. No declaration list
    shall follow.
6   If the declarator includes an identifier list, each declaration in the declaration list shall
    have at least one declarator, those declarators shall declare only identifiers from the
    identifier list, and every identifier in the identifier list shall be declared. An identifier
    declared as a typedef name shall not be redeclared as a parameter. The declarations in the
    declaration list shall contain no storage-class specifier other than register and no
    initializations.




    137) The intent is that the type category in a function definition cannot be inherited from a typedef:
                  typedef int F(void);                          // type F is ‘‘function with no parameters
                                                                //                returning int’’
                  F f, g;                                       // f and g both have type compatible with F
                  F f { /* ... */ }                             // WRONG: syntax/constraint error
                  F g() { /* ... */ }                           // WRONG: declares that g returns a function
                  int f(void) { /* ... */ }                     // RIGHT: f has type compatible with F
                  int g() { /* ... */ }                         // RIGHT: g has type compatible with F
                  F *e(void) { /* ... */ }                      // e returns a pointer to a function
                  F *((e))(void) { /* ... */ }                  // same: parentheses irrelevant
                  int (*fp)(void);                              // fp points to a function that has type F
                  F *Fp;                                        // Fp points to a function that has type F


    §6.9.1                                           Language                                                141
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                    ©ISO/IEC


     Semantics
7    The declarator in a function definition specifies the name of the function being defined
     and the identifiers of its parameters. If the declarator includes a parameter type list, the
     list also specifies the types of all the parameters; such a declarator also serves as a
     function prototype for later calls to the same function in the same translation unit. If the
     declarator includes an identifier list,138) the types of the parameters shall be declared in a
     following declaration list. In either case, the type of each parameter is adjusted as
     described in 6.7.5.3 for a parameter type list; the resulting type shall be an object type.
8    If a function that accepts a variable number of arguments is defined without a parameter
     type list that ends with the ellipsis notation, the behavior is undefined.
9    Each parameter has automatic storage duration. Its identifier is an lvalue, which is in
     effect declared at the head of the compound statement that constitutes the function body
     (and therefore cannot be redeclared in the function body except in an enclosed block).
     The layout of the storage for parameters is unspecified.
10   On entry to the function, the size expressions of each variably modified parameter are
     evaluated and the value of each argument expression is converted to the type of the
     corresponding parameter as if by assignment. (Array expressions and function
     designators as arguments were converted to pointers before the call.)
11   After all parameters have been assigned, the compound statement that constitutes the
     body of the function definition is executed.
12   If the } that terminates a function is reached, and the value of the function call is used by
     the caller, the behavior is undefined.
13   EXAMPLE 1       In the following:
              extern int max(int a, int b)
              {
                    return a > b ? a : b;
              }
     extern is the storage-class specifier and int is the type specifier; max(int a, int b) is the
     function declarator; and
              { return a > b ? a : b; }
     is the function body. The following similar definition uses the identifier-list form for the parameter
     declarations:




     138) See ‘‘future language directions’’ (6.11.7).

     142                                                 Language                                  §6.9.1
     ©ISO/IEC                                                                        ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


              extern int max(a, b)
              int a, b;
              {
                    return a > b ? a : b;
              }
     Here int a, b; is the declaration list for the parameters. The difference between these two definitions is
     that the first form acts as a prototype declaration that forces conversion of the arguments of subsequent calls
     to the function, whereas the second form does not.

14   EXAMPLE 2           To pass one function to another, one might say
                          int f(void);
                          /* ... */
                          g(f);
     Then the definition of g might read
              void g(int (*funcp)(void))
              {
                    /* ... */
                    (*funcp)() /* or funcp()                       ...    */
              }
     or, equivalently,
              void g(int func(void))
              {
                    /* ... */
                    func() /* or (*func)()                   ...         */
              }

     6.9.2 External object definitions
     Semantics
1    If the declaration of an identifier for an object has file scope and an initializer, the
     declaration is an external definition for the identifier.
2    A declaration of an identifier for an object that has file scope without an initializer, and
     without a storage-class specifier or with the storage-class specifier static, constitutes a
     tentative definition. If a translation unit contains one or more tentative definitions for an
     identifier, and the translation unit contains no external definition for that identifier, then
     the behavior is exactly as if the translation unit contains a file scope declaration of that
     identifier, with the composite type as of the end of the translation unit, with an initializer
     equal to 0.
3    If the declaration of an identifier for an object is a tentative definition and has internal
     linkage, the declared type shall not be an incomplete type.




     §6.9.2                                             Language                                               143
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


4   EXAMPLE 1
             int i1 = 1;                    // definition, external linkage
             static int i2 = 2;             // definition, internal linkage
             extern int i3 = 3;             // definition, external linkage
             int i4;                        // tentative definition, external linkage
             static int i5;                 // tentative definition, internal linkage
             int i1;                        // valid tentative definition, refers to previous
             int i2;                        // 6.2.2 renders undefined, linkage disagreement
             int i3;                        // valid tentative definition, refers to previous
             int i4;                        // valid tentative definition, refers to previous
             int i5;                        // 6.2.2 renders undefined, linkage disagreement
             extern int i1;                 // refers to previous, whose linkage is external
             extern int i2;                 // refers to previous, whose linkage is internal
             extern int i3;                 // refers to previous, whose linkage is external
             extern int i4;                 // refers to previous, whose linkage is external
             extern int i5;                 // refers to previous, whose linkage is internal

5   EXAMPLE 2       If at the end of the translation unit containing
             int i[];
    the array i still has incomplete type, the implicit initializer causes it to have one element, which is set to
    zero on program startup.




    144                                              Language                                             §6.9.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                             ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.10 Preprocessing directives
    Syntax
1            preprocessing-file:
                    groupopt
             group:
                      group-part
                      group group-part
             group-part:
                    if-section
                    control-line
                    text-line
                    # non-directive
             if-section:
                      if-group elif-groupsopt else-groupopt endif-line
             if-group:
                     # if     constant-expression new-line groupopt
                     # ifdef identifier new-line groupopt
                     # ifndef identifier new-line groupopt
             elif-groups:
                     elif-group
                     elif-groups elif-group
             elif-group:
                     # elif        constant-expression new-line groupopt
             else-group:
                     # else        new-line groupopt
             endif-line:
                     # endif       new-line




    §6.10                                     Language                                    145
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


             control-line:
                    # include pp-tokens new-line
                    # define identifier replacement-list new-line
                    # define identifier lparen identifier-listopt )
                                                    replacement-list new-line
                    # define identifier lparen ... ) replacement-list new-line
                    # define identifier lparen identifier-list , ... )
                                                    replacement-list new-line
                    # undef   identifier new-line
                    # line    pp-tokens new-line
                    # error   pp-tokensopt new-line
                    # pragma pp-tokensopt new-line
                    #         new-line
             text-line:
                     pp-tokensopt new-line
             non-directive:
                    pp-tokens new-line
             lparen:
                       a ( character not immediately preceded by white-space
             replacement-list:
                    pp-tokensopt
             pp-tokens:
                    preprocessing-token
                    pp-tokens preprocessing-token
             new-line:
                    the new-line character
    Description
2   A preprocessing directive consists of a sequence of preprocessing tokens that begins with
    a # preprocessing token that (at the start of translation phase 4) is either the first character
    in the source file (optionally after white space containing no new-line characters) or that
    follows white space containing at least one new-line character, and is ended by the next
    new-line character.139) A new-line character ends the preprocessing directive even if it
    occurs within what would otherwise be an invocation of a function-like macro.



    139) Thus, preprocessing directives are commonly called ‘‘lines’’. These ‘‘lines’’ have no other syntactic
         significance, as all white space is equivalent except in certain situations during preprocessing (see the
         # character string literal creation operator in 6.10.3.2, for example).

    146                                             Language                                               §6.10
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                      ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


3   A text line shall not begin with a # preprocessing token. A non-directive shall not begin
    with any of the directive names appearing in the syntax.
4   When in a group that is skipped (6.10.1), the directive syntax is relaxed to allow any
    sequence of preprocessing tokens to occur between the directive name and the following
    new-line character.
    Constraints
5   The only white-space characters that shall appear between preprocessing tokens within a
    preprocessing directive (from just after the introducing # preprocessing token through
    just before the terminating new-line character) are space and horizontal-tab (including
    spaces that have replaced comments or possibly other white-space characters in
    translation phase 3).
    Semantics
6   The implementation can process and skip sections of source files conditionally, include
    other source files, and replace macros. These capabilities are called preprocessing,
    because conceptually they occur before translation of the resulting translation unit.
7   The preprocessing tokens within a preprocessing directive are not subject to macro
    expansion unless otherwise stated.
8   EXAMPLE        In:
             #define EMPTY
             EMPTY # include <file.h>
    the sequence of preprocessing tokens on the second line is not a preprocessing directive, because it does not
    begin with a # at the start of translation phase 4, even though it will do so after the macro EMPTY has been
    replaced.

    6.10.1 Conditional inclusion
    Constraints
1   The expression that controls conditional inclusion shall be an integer constant expression
    except that: it shall not contain a cast; identifiers (including those lexically identical to
    keywords) are interpreted as described below;140) and it may contain unary operator
    expressions of the form
         defined identifier
    or
         defined ( identifier )
    which evaluate to 1 if the identifier is currently defined as a macro name (that is, if it is


    140) Because the controlling constant expression is evaluated during translation phase 4, all identifiers
         either are or are not macro names — there simply are no keywords, enumeration constants, etc.

    §6.10.1                                         Language                                                147
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                     ©ISO/IEC


    predefined or if it has been the subject of a #define preprocessing directive without an
    intervening #undef directive with the same subject identifier), 0 if it is not.
    Semantics
2   Preprocessing directives of the forms
       # if   constant-expression new-line groupopt
       # elif constant-expression new-line groupopt
    check whether the controlling constant expression evaluates to nonzero.
3   Prior to evaluation, macro invocations in the list of preprocessing tokens that will become
    the controlling constant expression are replaced (except for those macro names modified
    by the defined unary operator), just as in normal text. If the token defined is
    generated as a result of this replacement process or use of the defined unary operator
    does not match one of the two specified forms prior to macro replacement, the behavior is
    undefined. After all replacements due to macro expansion and the defined unary
    operator have been performed, all remaining identifiers are replaced with the pp-number
    0, and then each preprocessing token is converted into a token. The resulting tokens
    compose the controlling constant expression which is evaluated according to the rules of
    6.6, except that all signed integer types and all unsigned integer types act as if they have
    the same representation as, respectively, the types intmax_t and uintmax_t defined
    in the header <stdint.h>. This includes interpreting character constants, which may
    involve converting escape sequences into execution character set members. Whether the
    numeric value for these character constants matches the value obtained when an identical
    character constant occurs in an expression (other than within a #if or #elif directive)
    is implementation-defined.141) Also, whether a single-character character constant may
    have a negative value is implementation-defined.
4   Preprocessing directives of the forms
       # ifdef identifier new-line groupopt
       # ifndef identifier new-line groupopt
    check whether the identifier is or is not currently defined as a macro name. Their
    conditions are equivalent to #if defined identifier and #if !defined identifier
    respectively.




    141) Thus, the constant expression in the following #if directive and if statement is not guaranteed to
         evaluate to the same value in these two contexts.
           #if 'z' - 'a' == 25
           if ('z' - 'a' == 25)


    148                                          Language                                         §6.10.1
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                  ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


5   Each directive’s condition is checked in order. If it evaluates to false (zero), the group
    that it controls is skipped: directives are processed only through the name that determines
    the directive in order to keep track of the level of nested conditionals; the rest of the
    directives’ preprocessing tokens are ignored, as are the other preprocessing tokens in the
    group. Only the first group whose control condition evaluates to true (nonzero) is
    processed. If none of the conditions evaluates to true, and there is a #else directive, the
    group controlled by the #else is processed; lacking a #else directive, all the groups
    until the #endif are skipped.142)
    Forward references: macro replacement (6.10.3), source file inclusion (6.10.2), largest
    integer types (7.18.1.5).
    6.10.2 Source file inclusion
    Constraints
1   A #include directive shall identify a header or source file that can be processed by the
    implementation.
    Semantics
2   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # include <h-char-sequence> new-line
    searches a sequence of implementation-defined places for a header identified uniquely by
    the specified sequence between the < and > delimiters, and causes the replacement of that
    directive by the entire contents of the header. How the places are specified or the header
    identified is implementation-defined.
3   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # include "q-char-sequence" new-line
    causes the replacement of that directive by the entire contents of the source file identified
    by the specified sequence between the " delimiters. The named source file is searched
    for in an implementation-defined manner. If this search is not supported, or if the search
    fails, the directive is reprocessed as if it read
       # include <h-char-sequence> new-line
    with the identical contained sequence (including > characters, if any) from the original
    directive.




    142) As indicated by the syntax, a preprocessing token shall not follow a #else or #endif directive
         before the terminating new-line character. However, comments may appear anywhere in a source file,
         including within a preprocessing directive.

    §6.10.2                                      Language                                             149
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                           ©ISO/IEC


4   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # include pp-tokens new-line
    (that does not match one of the two previous forms) is permitted. The preprocessing
    tokens after include in the directive are processed just as in normal text. (Each
    identifier currently defined as a macro name is replaced by its replacement list of
    preprocessing tokens.) The directive resulting after all replacements shall match one of
    the two previous forms.143) The method by which a sequence of preprocessing tokens
    between a < and a > preprocessing token pair or a pair of " characters is combined into a
    single header name preprocessing token is implementation-defined.
5   The implementation shall provide unique mappings for sequences consisting of one or
    more letters or digits (as defined in 5.2.1) followed by a period (.) and a single letter.
    The first character shall be a letter. The implementation may ignore the distinctions of
    alphabetical case and restrict the mapping to eight significant characters before the
    period.
6   A #include preprocessing directive may appear in a source file that has been read
    because of a #include directive in another file, up to an implementation-defined
    nesting limit (see 5.2.4.1).
7   EXAMPLE 1       The most common uses of #include preprocessing directives are as in the following:
             #include <stdio.h>
             #include "myprog.h"

8   EXAMPLE 2       This illustrates macro-replaced #include directives:
             #if VERSION == 1
                   #define INCFILE              "vers1.h"
             #elif VERSION == 2
                   #define INCFILE              "vers2.h"         // and so on
             #else
                    #define INCFILE             "versN.h"
             #endif
             #include INCFILE

    Forward references: macro replacement (6.10.3).




    143) Note that adjacent string literals are not concatenated into a single string literal (see the translation
         phases in 5.1.1.2); thus, an expansion that results in two string literals is an invalid directive.

    150                                             Language                                            §6.10.2
    ©ISO/IEC                                                           ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.10.3 Macro replacement
    Constraints
1   Two replacement lists are identical if and only if the preprocessing tokens in both have
    the same number, ordering, spelling, and white-space separation, where all white-space
    separations are considered identical.
2   An identifier currently defined as an object-like macro shall not be redefined by another
    #define preprocessing directive unless the second definition is an object-like macro
    definition and the two replacement lists are identical. Likewise, an identifier currently
    defined as a function-like macro shall not be redefined by another #define
    preprocessing directive unless the second definition is a function-like macro definition
    that has the same number and spelling of parameters, and the two replacement lists are
    identical.
3   There shall be white-space between the identifier and the replacement list in the definition
    of an object-like macro.
4   If the identifier-list in the macro definition does not end with an ellipsis, the number of
    arguments (including those arguments consisting of no preprocessing tokens) in an
    invocation of a function-like macro shall equal the number of parameters in the macro
    definition. Otherwise, there shall be more arguments in the invocation than there are
    parameters in the macro definition (excluding the ...). There shall exist a )
    preprocessing token that terminates the invocation.
5   The identifier _ _VA_ARGS_ _ shall occur only in the replacement-list of a function-like
    macro that uses the ellipsis notation in the arguments.
6   A parameter identifier in a function-like macro shall be uniquely declared within its
    scope.
    Semantics
7   The identifier immediately following the define is called the macro name. There is one
    name space for macro names. Any white-space characters preceding or following the
    replacement list of preprocessing tokens are not considered part of the replacement list
    for either form of macro.
8   If a # preprocessing token, followed by an identifier, occurs lexically at the point at which
    a preprocessing directive could begin, the identifier is not subject to macro replacement.
9   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # define identifier replacement-list new-line




    §6.10.3                                  Language                                        151
     ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                          ©ISO/IEC


     defines an object-like macro that causes each subsequent instance of the macro name144)
     to be replaced by the replacement list of preprocessing tokens that constitute the
     remainder of the directive.
10   A preprocessing directive of the form
        # define identifier lparen identifier-listopt ) replacement-list new-line
        # define identifier lparen ... ) replacement-list new-line
        # define identifier lparen identifier-list , ... ) replacement-list new-line
     defines a function-like macro with arguments, similar syntactically to a function call. The
     parameters are specified by the optional list of identifiers, whose scope extends from their
     declaration in the identifier list until the new-line character that terminates the #define
     preprocessing directive. Each subsequent instance of the function-like macro name
     followed by a ( as the next preprocessing token introduces the sequence of preprocessing
     tokens that is replaced by the replacement list in the definition (an invocation of the
     macro). The replaced sequence of preprocessing tokens is terminated by the matching )
     preprocessing token, skipping intervening matched pairs of left and right parenthesis
     preprocessing tokens. Within the sequence of preprocessing tokens making up an
     invocation of a function-like macro, new-line is considered a normal white-space
     character.
11   The sequence of preprocessing tokens bounded by the outside-most matching parentheses
     forms the list of arguments for the function-like macro. The individual arguments within
     the list are separated by comma preprocessing tokens, but comma preprocessing tokens
     between matching inner parentheses do not separate arguments. If there are sequences of
     preprocessing tokens within the list of arguments that would otherwise act as
     preprocessing directives, the behavior is undefined.
12   If there is a ... in the identifier-list in the macro definition, then the trailing arguments,
     including any separating comma preprocessing tokens, are merged to form a single item:
     the variable arguments. The number of arguments so combined is such that, following
     merger, the number of arguments is one more than the number of parameters in the macro
     definition (excluding the ...).




     144) Since, by macro-replacement time, all character constants and string literals are preprocessing tokens,
          not sequences possibly containing identifier-like subsequences (see 5.1.1.2, translation phases), they
          are never scanned for macro names or parameters.

     152                                             Language                                          §6.10.3
    ©ISO/IEC                                                          ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.10.3.1 Argument substitution
1   After the arguments for the invocation of a function-like macro have been identified,
    argument substitution takes place. A parameter in the replacement list, unless preceded
    by a # or ## preprocessing token or followed by a ## preprocessing token (see below), is
    replaced by the corresponding argument after all macros contained therein have been
    expanded. Before being substituted, each argument’s preprocessing tokens are
    completely macro replaced as if they formed the rest of the preprocessing file; no other
    preprocessing tokens are available.
2   An identifier _ _VA_ARGS_ _ that occurs in the replacement list shall be treated as if it
    were a parameter, and the variable arguments shall form the preprocessing tokens used to
    replace it.
    6.10.3.2 The # operator
    Constraints
1   Each # preprocessing token in the replacement list for a function-like macro shall be
    followed by a parameter as the next preprocessing token in the replacement list.
    Semantics
2   If, in the replacement list, a parameter is immediately preceded by a # preprocessing
    token, both are replaced by a single character string literal preprocessing token that
    contains the spelling of the preprocessing token sequence for the corresponding
    argument. Each occurrence of white space between the argument’s preprocessing tokens
    becomes a single space character in the character string literal. White space before the
    first preprocessing token and after the last preprocessing token composing the argument
    is deleted. Otherwise, the original spelling of each preprocessing token in the argument
    is retained in the character string literal, except for special handling for producing the
    spelling of string literals and character constants: a \ character is inserted before each "
    and \ character of a character constant or string literal (including the delimiting "
    characters), except that it is implementation-defined whether a \ character is inserted
    before the \ character beginning a universal character name. If the replacement that
    results is not a valid character string literal, the behavior is undefined. The character
    string literal corresponding to an empty argument is "". The order of evaluation of # and
    ## operators is unspecified.




    §6.10.3.2                               Language                                        153
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                        ©ISO/IEC


    6.10.3.3 The ## operator
    Constraints
1   A ## preprocessing token shall not occur at the beginning or at the end of a replacement
    list for either form of macro definition.
    Semantics
2   If, in the replacement list of a function-like macro, a parameter is immediately preceded
    or followed by a ## preprocessing token, the parameter is replaced by the corresponding
    argument’s preprocessing token sequence; however, if an argument consists of no
    preprocessing tokens, the parameter is replaced by a placemarker preprocessing token
    instead.145)
3   For both object-like and function-like macro invocations, before the replacement list is
    reexamined for more macro names to replace, each instance of a ## preprocessing token
    in the replacement list (not from an argument) is deleted and the preceding preprocessing
    token is concatenated with the following preprocessing token. Placemarker
    preprocessing tokens are handled specially: concatenation of two placemarkers results in
    a single placemarker preprocessing token, and concatenation of a placemarker with a
    non-placemarker preprocessing token results in the non-placemarker preprocessing token.
    If the result is not a valid preprocessing token, the behavior is undefined. The resulting
    token is available for further macro replacement. The order of evaluation of ## operators
    is unspecified.
4   EXAMPLE       In the following fragment:
            #define hash_hash # ## #
            #define mkstr(a) # a
            #define in_between(a) mkstr(a)
            #define join(c, d) in_between(c hash_hash d)
            char p[] = join(x, y); // equivalent to
                                   // char p[] = "x ## y";
    The expansion produces, at various stages:
            join(x, y)
            in_between(x hash_hash y)
            in_between(x ## y)
            mkstr(x ## y)
            "x ## y"
    In other words, expanding hash_hash produces a new token, consisting of two adjacent sharp signs, but
    this new token is not the ## operator.


    145) Placemarker preprocessing tokens do not appear in the syntax because they are temporary entities that
         exist only within translation phase 4.

    154                                            Language                                       §6.10.3.3
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                         ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.10.3.4 Rescanning and further replacement
1   After all parameters in the replacement list have been substituted and # and ##
    processing has taken place, all placemarker preprocessing tokens are removed. Then, the
    resulting preprocessing token sequence is rescanned, along with all subsequent
    preprocessing tokens of the source file, for more macro names to replace.
2   If the name of the macro being replaced is found during this scan of the replacement list
    (not including the rest of the source file’s preprocessing tokens), it is not replaced.
    Furthermore, if any nested replacements encounter the name of the macro being replaced,
    it is not replaced. These nonreplaced macro name preprocessing tokens are no longer
    available for further replacement even if they are later (re)examined in contexts in which
    that macro name preprocessing token would otherwise have been replaced.
3   The resulting completely macro-replaced preprocessing token sequence is not processed
    as a preprocessing directive even if it resembles one, but all pragma unary operator
    expressions within it are then processed as specified in 6.10.9 below.
    6.10.3.5 Scope of macro definitions
1   A macro definition lasts (independent of block structure) until a corresponding #undef
    directive is encountered or (if none is encountered) until the end of the preprocessing
    translation unit. Macro definitions have no significance after translation phase 4.
2   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # undef identifier new-line
    causes the specified identifier no longer to be defined as a macro name. It is ignored if
    the specified identifier is not currently defined as a macro name.
3   EXAMPLE 1      The simplest use of this facility is to define a ‘‘manifest constant’’, as in
            #define TABSIZE 100
            int table[TABSIZE];

4   EXAMPLE 2 The following defines a function-like macro whose value is the maximum of its arguments.
    It has the advantages of working for any compatible types of the arguments and of generating in-line code
    without the overhead of function calling. It has the disadvantages of evaluating one or the other of its
    arguments a second time (including side effects) and generating more code than a function if invoked
    several times. It also cannot have its address taken, as it has none.
            #define max(a, b) ((a) > (b) ? (a) : (b))
    The parentheses ensure that the arguments and the resulting expression are bound properly.




    §6.10.3.5                                        Language                                           155
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                        ©ISO/IEC


5   EXAMPLE 3     To illustrate the rules for redefinition and reexamination, the sequence
             #define x      3
             #define f(a)   f(x * (a))
             #undef x
             #define x      2
             #define g      f
             #define z      z[0]
             #define h      g(˜
             #define m(a)   a(w)
             #define w      0,1
             #define t(a)   a
             #define p()    int
             #define q(x)   x
             #define r(x,y) x ## y
             #define str(x) # x
             f(y+1) + f(f(z)) % t(t(g)(0) + t)(1);
             g(x+(3,4)-w) | h 5) & m
                   (f)ˆm(m);
             p() i[q()] = { q(1), r(2,3), r(4,), r(,5), r(,) };
             char c[2][6] = { str(hello), str() };
    results in
             f(2 * (y+1)) + f(2 * (f(2 * (z[0])))) % f(2 * (0)) + t(1);
             f(2 * (2+(3,4)-0,1)) | f(2 * (˜ 5)) & f(2 * (0,1))ˆm(0,1);
             int i[] = { 1, 23, 4, 5, };
             char c[2][6] = { "hello", "" };

6   EXAMPLE 4     To illustrate the rules for creating character string literals and concatenating tokens, the
    sequence
             #define str(s)      # s
             #define xstr(s)     str(s)
             #define debug(s, t) printf("x" # s "= %d, x" # t "= %s", \
                                     x ## s, x ## t)
             #define INCFILE(n) vers ## n // from previous #include example
             #define glue(a, b) a ## b
             #define xglue(a, b) glue(a, b)
             #define HIGHLOW     "hello"
             #define LOW         LOW ", world"
             debug(1, 2);
             fputs(str(strncmp("abc\0d", "abc", '\4') // this goes away
                   == 0) str(: @\n), s);
             #include xstr(INCFILE(2).h)
             glue(HIGH, LOW);
             xglue(HIGH, LOW)
    results in




    156                                           Language                                        §6.10.3.5
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                         ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


             printf("x" "1" "= %d, x" "2" "= %s", x1, x2);
             fputs(
               "strncmp(\"abc\\0d\", \"abc\", '\\4') == 0" ": @\n",
               s);
             #include "vers2.h"    (after macro replacement, before file access)
             "hello";
             "hello" ", world"
    or, after concatenation of the character string literals,
             printf("x1= %d, x2= %s", x1, x2);
             fputs(
               "strncmp(\"abc\\0d\", \"abc\", '\\4') == 0: @\n",
               s);
             #include "vers2.h"    (after macro replacement, before file access)
             "hello";
             "hello, world"
    Space around the # and ## tokens in the macro definition is optional.

7   EXAMPLE 5        To illustrate the rules for placemarker preprocessing tokens, the sequence
             #define t(x,y,z) x ## y ## z
             int j[] = { t(1,2,3), t(,4,5), t(6,,7), t(8,9,),
                        t(10,,), t(,11,), t(,,12), t(,,) };
    results in
             int j[] = { 123, 45, 67, 89,
                         10, 11, 12, };

8   EXAMPLE 6        To demonstrate the redefinition rules, the following sequence is valid.
             #define OBJ_LIKE      (1-1)
             #define OBJ_LIKE      /* white space */ (1-1) /* other */
             #define FUNC_LIKE(a)   ( a )
             #define FUNC_LIKE( a )( /* note the white space */ \
                                     a /* other stuff on this line
                                        */ )
    But the following redefinitions are invalid:
             #define OBJ_LIKE    (0)     // different token sequence
             #define OBJ_LIKE    (1 - 1) // different white space
             #define FUNC_LIKE(b) ( a ) // different parameter usage
             #define FUNC_LIKE(b) ( b ) // different parameter spelling

9   EXAMPLE 7        Finally, to show the variable argument list macro facilities:
             #define debug(...)       fprintf(stderr, _ _VA_ARGS_ _)
             #define showlist(...)    puts(#_ _VA_ARGS_ _)
             #define report(test, ...) ((test)?puts(#test):\
                         printf(_ _VA_ARGS_ _))
             debug("Flag");
             debug("X = %d\n", x);
             showlist(The first, second, and third items.);
             report(x>y, "x is %d but y is %d", x, y);


    §6.10.3.5                                          Language                                       157
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                ©ISO/IEC


    results in
             fprintf(stderr, "Flag" );
             fprintf(stderr, "X = %d\n", x );
             puts( "The first, second, and third items." );
             ((x>y)?puts("x>y"):
                         printf("x is %d but y is %d", x, y));

    6.10.4 Line control
    Constraints
1   The string literal of a #line directive, if present, shall be a character string literal.
    Semantics
2   The line number of the current source line is one greater than the number of new-line
    characters read or introduced in translation phase 1 (5.1.1.2) while processing the source
    file to the current token.
3   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # line digit-sequence new-line
    causes the implementation to behave as if the following sequence of source lines begins
    with a source line that has a line number as specified by the digit sequence (interpreted as
    a decimal integer). The digit sequence shall not specify zero, nor a number greater than
    2147483647.
4   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # line digit-sequence "s-char-sequenceopt" new-line
    sets the presumed line number similarly and changes the presumed name of the source
    file to be the contents of the character string literal.
5   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # line pp-tokens new-line
    (that does not match one of the two previous forms) is permitted. The preprocessing
    tokens after line on the directive are processed just as in normal text (each identifier
    currently defined as a macro name is replaced by its replacement list of preprocessing
    tokens). The directive resulting after all replacements shall match one of the two
    previous forms and is then processed as appropriate.




    158                                       Language                                      §6.10.4
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                   ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.10.5 Error directive
    Semantics
1   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # error pp-tokensopt new-line
    causes the implementation to produce a diagnostic message that includes the specified
    sequence of preprocessing tokens.
    6.10.6 Pragma directive
    Semantics
1   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # pragma pp-tokensopt new-line
    where the preprocessing token STDC does not immediately follow pragma in the
    directive (prior to any macro replacement)146) causes the implementation to behave in an
    implementation-defined manner. The behavior might cause translation to fail or cause the
    translator or the resulting program to behave in a non-conforming manner. Any such
    pragma that is not recognized by the implementation is ignored.
2   If the preprocessing token STDC does immediately follow pragma in the directive (prior
    to any macro replacement), then no macro replacement is performed on the directive, and
    the directive shall have one of the following forms147) whose meanings are described
    elsewhere:
       #pragma STDC FP_CONTRACT on-off-switch
       #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS on-off-switch
       #pragma STDC CX_LIMITED_RANGE on-off-switch
       on-off-switch: one of
                   ON     OFF           DEFAULT
    Forward references: the FP_CONTRACT pragma (7.12.2), the FENV_ACCESS pragma
    (7.6.1), the CX_LIMITED_RANGE pragma (7.3.4).




    146) An implementation is not required to perform macro replacement in pragmas, but it is permitted
         except for in standard pragmas (where STDC immediately follows pragma). If the result of macro
         replacement in a non-standard pragma has the same form as a standard pragma, the behavior is still
         implementation-defined; an implementation is permitted to behave as if it were the standard pragma,
         but is not required to.
    147) See ‘‘future language directions’’ (6.11.8).

    §6.10.6                                             Language                                       159
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                       ©ISO/IEC


    6.10.7 Null directive
    Semantics
1   A preprocessing directive of the form
       # new-line
    has no effect.
    6.10.8 Predefined macro names
1   The following macro names148) shall be defined by the implementation:
    _ _DATE_ _ The date of translation of the preprocessing translation unit: a character
               string literal of the form "Mmm dd yyyy", where the names of the
               months are the same as those generated by the asctime function, and the
               first character of dd is a space character if the value is less than 10. If the
               date of translation is not available, an implementation-defined valid date
               shall be supplied.
    _ _FILE_ _ The presumed name of the current source file (a character string literal).149)
    _ _LINE_ _ The presumed line number (within the current source file) of the current
               source line (an integer constant).149)
    _ _STDC_ _ The integer constant 1, intended to indicate a conforming implementation.
    _ _STDC_HOSTED_ _ The integer constant 1 if the implementation is a hosted
              implementation or the integer constant 0 if it is not.
    _ _STDC_VERSION_ _ The integer constant 199901L.150)
    _ _TIME_ _ The time of translation of the preprocessing translation unit: a character
               string literal of the form "hh:mm:ss" as in the time generated by the
               asctime function. If the time of translation is not available, an
               implementation-defined valid time shall be supplied.
2   The following macro names are conditionally defined by the implementation:
    _ _STDC_IEC_559_ _ The integer constant 1, intended to indicate conformance to the
              specifications in annex F (IEC 60559 floating-point arithmetic).



    148) See ‘‘future language directions’’ (6.11.9).
    149) The presumed source file name and line number can be changed by the #line directive.
    150) This macro was not specified in ISO/IEC 9899:1990 and was specified as 199409L in
         ISO/IEC 9899/AMD1:1995. The intention is that this will remain an integer constant of type long
         int that is increased with each revision of this International Standard.

    160                                                 Language                                  §6.10.8
    ©ISO/IEC                                                                   ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    _ _STDC_IEC_559_COMPLEX_ _ The integer constant 1, intended to indicate
              adherence to the specifications in informative annex G (IEC 60559
              compatible complex arithmetic).
    _ _STDC_ISO_10646_ _ An integer constant of the form yyyymmL (for example,
              199712L), intended to indicate that values of type wchar_t are the
              coded representations of the characters defined by ISO/IEC 10646, along
              with all amendments and technical corrigenda as of the specified year and
              month.
3   The values of the predefined macros (except for _ _FILE_ _ and _ _LINE_ _) remain
    constant throughout the translation unit.
4   None of these macro names, nor the identifier defined, shall be the subject of a
    #define or a #undef preprocessing directive. Any other predefined macro names
    shall begin with a leading underscore followed by an uppercase letter or a second
    underscore.
5   The implementation shall not predefine the macro _ _cplusplus, nor shall it define it
    in any standard header.
    Forward references: the asctime function (7.23.3.1), standard headers (7.1.2).
    6.10.9 Pragma operator
    Semantics
1   A unary operator expression of the form:
       _Pragma ( string-literal )
    is processed as follows: The string literal is destringized by deleting the L prefix, if
    present, deleting the leading and trailing double-quotes, replacing each escape sequence
    \" by a double-quote, and replacing each escape sequence \\ by a single backslash. The
    resulting sequence of characters is processed through translation phase 3 to produce
    preprocessing tokens that are executed as if they were the pp-tokens in a pragma
    directive. The original four preprocessing tokens in the unary operator expression are
    removed.
2   EXAMPLE       A directive of the form:
             #pragma listing on "..\listing.dir"
    can also be expressed as:
             _Pragma ( "listing on \"..\\listing.dir\"" )
    The latter form is processed in the same way whether it appears literally as shown, or results from macro
    replacement, as in:




    §6.10.9                                       Language                                              161
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                            ©ISO/IEC


      #define LISTING(x) PRAGMA(listing on #x)
      #define PRAGMA(x) _Pragma(#x)
      LISTING ( ..\listing.dir )




162                                Language        §6.10.9
    ©ISO/IEC                                                         ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)


    6.11 Future language directions
    6.11.1 Floating types
1   Future standardization may include additional floating-point types, including those with
    greater range, precision, or both than long double.
    6.11.2 Linkages of identifiers
1   Declaring an identifier with internal linkage at file scope without the static storage-
    class specifier is an obsolescent feature.
    6.11.3 External names
1   Restriction of the significance of an external name to fewer than 255 characters
    (considering each universal character name or extended source character as a single
    character) is an obsolescent feature that is a concession to existing implementations.
    6.11.4 Character escape sequences
1   Lowercase letters as escape sequences are reserved for future standardization. Other
    characters may be used in extensions.
    6.11.5 Storage-class specifiers
1   The placement of a storage-class specifier other than at the beginning of the declaration
    specifiers in a declaration is an obsolescent feature.
    6.11.6 Function declarators
1   The use of function declarators with empty parentheses (not prototype-format parameter
    type declarators) is an obsolescent feature.
    6.11.7 Function definitions
1   The use of function definitions with separate parameter identifier and declaration lists
    (not prototype-format parameter type and identifier declarators) is an obsolescent feature.
    6.11.8 Pragma directives
1   Pragmas whose first preprocessing token is STDC are reserved for future standardization.
    6.11.9 Predefined macro names
1   Macro names beginning with _ _STDC_ are reserved for future standardization.




    §6.11.9                                 Language                                       163
    ISO/IEC 9899:1999 (E)                                                                     ©ISO/IEC



